Classical novae eject significant amounts of matter into the interstellar medium, as a result of thermonuclear runaways. Nucleosynthesis associated with nova outbursts includes products from explosive H burning, such as 17O, 15N and 13C, and also radioactive species like 7Be, 22Na and 26Al. In this paper we report on new hydrodynamic calculations of nova outbursts, from the onset of accretion to mass ejection. We stress the role played by the nuclear uncertainties associated with key reactions of the NeNa-MgAl cycles on the synthesis of 22Na and 26Al. 
In a 21 cm neutral hydrogen survey of approximately 55 sq deg out to a redshift of cz=8340 km/s, we have identified 75 extragalactic HI sources. These objects comprise a well-defined sample of extragalactic sources chosen by means that are independent of optical surface brightness selection effects. In this paper we describe the Arecibo survey procedures and HI data, follow-up VLA HI observations made of several unusual sources, and Kitt Peak B-, R-, and I-band photometry for nearly all of the galaxies. We have also gathered information for some of the optically detected galaxies within the same search volume. We examine how samples generated by different types of search techniques overlap with selection by HI flux. Only the least massive HI object, which is among the lowest mass HI sources previously found, does not have a clear optical counterpart, but a nearby bright star may hide low surface brightness emission. However the newly-detected systems do have unusual optical properties. Most of the 40 galaxies that were not previously identified in magnitude-limited catalogs appear to be gas-dominated systems, and several of these systems have HI mass-to-light ratios among the largest values ever previously found. These gas-dominated objects also tend to have very blue colors, low surface brightnesses, and no central bulges, which correlate strongly with their relative star-to-gas content. 
We present total-intensity and linear-polarization observations made with the Very Large Array at $\lambda$20 and 6 cm of a representative sample of 42 radio galaxies and quasars selected from the Molonglo Complete Sample. The sources have been chosen to be of large size to probe the depolarizing medium on these scales using our present data and later with observations at lower frequencies with the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope. The $\lambda$20 and 6 cm data are of similar resolutions and show that depolarization between these two wavelengths is seen largely in only those lobes which are within about 300 kpc of the parent galaxy. Examination of the depolarization of the lobes with arm-length asymmetry shows that depolarization is observed predominantly for the lobe which is closer to the nucleus. There is also a trend for the lobe closer to the nucleus to be brighter, consistent with the scenario that the nearer lobe is interacting with a denser environment which is responsible for the higher depolarization and greater dissipation of energy. We have also examined the depolarization asymmetry of the lobes on opposite sides of the nucleus for galaxies and quasars. This shows that the depolarization asymmetry for quasars is marginally higher than that for galaxies. The depolarization properties of our sample are possibly determined by an asymmetric environment as well as the effects of orientation. 
This paper examines the mode identification and presents pulsation models for FG Vir, for which 24 frequencies have been detected. Histograms of the frequency spacings show peaks which are identified with adjacent radial orders and rotational splitting.   Pulsational $\ell$ values are deduced for eight modes by comparing the observed photometric phase lags between $v$ and $y$ variations with calculated values. The dominant pulsation mode at 12.72 c/d can be identified with $\ell$ = 1, while the 12.15 c/d mode is the radial fundamental. These results are in agreement with identifications published by Viskum et al. (1998).   Based on the observational mode identifications and the Hipparcos distance, new models were computed with the constraint that the mode at 12.15 c/d is the radial fundamental mode. It is shown that with standard opacities, models in the appropriate T_eff, log L and log g ranges cannot reproduce the identification in the literature of 23.40 c/d as the third radial overtone. However, we show that observationally an $\ell$ = 1 (rather than radial) identification is equally probable.   A large number of pulsation models were computed for FG Vir. A comparison between the observed frequencies and mode identifications and pulsation models leads to a mean density of <rho>/<rho_sun> = 0.156 +- 0.002 depending on the opacity and chemical composition choice and on the possible overshooting from the convective core. The models also correctly predict the observed region of instability between 9 and 34 c/d.   The effect of rotational coupling on the pulsation frequencies is estimated. 
We present time-resolved spectroscopy and photometry of the bright cataclysmic variable LS Peg (= S193). The Balmer lines exhibit broad, asymmetric wings Doppler-shifted by about 2000 km/s at the edges, while the HeI lines show phase-dependent absorption features strikingly similar to SW Sextantis stars, as well as emission through most of the phase. The CIII/NIII emission blend does not show any phase dependence. From velocities of Halpha emission lines, we determine an orbital period of 0.174774 +/- 0.000003 d (= 4.1946 h), which agrees with Szkody's (1995) value of approximately 4.2 hours. No stable photometric signal was found at the orbital period. A non-coherent quasi-periodic photometric signal was seen at a period of 20.7 +/- 0.3 min.   The high-velocity Balmer wings most probably arise from a stream re-impact point close to the white dwarf. We present simulated spectra based on a kinematic model similar to the modified disk-overflow scenario of Hellier & Robinson (1994). The models reproduce the broad line wings, though some other details are unexplained.   Using an estimate of dynamical phase based on the model, we show that the phasing of the emission- and absorption-line variations is consistent with that in (eclipsing) SW Sex stars. We therefore identify LS Peg as a low-inclination SW Sex star.   Our model suggests i = 30 deg, and the observed absence of any photometric signal at the orbital frequency establishes i < 60 deg. This constraint puts a severe strain on interpretations of the SW Sex phenomenon which rely on disk structures lying slightly out of the orbital plane. 
We use self-consistent N-body models, in conjunction with models of test particles moving in galaxy potentials, to explore the initial effects of interactions on the rotation curves of spiral galaxies. Using nearly self-consistent disk/bulge/halo galaxy models (Kuijken & Dubinski 1995), we simulate the first pass of galaxies on nearly parabolic orbits; we vary orbit inclinations, galaxy halo masses and impact parameters. For each simulation, we mimic observed rotation curves of the model galaxies. Transient interaction-induced features of the curves include distinctly rising or falling profiles at large radii and pronounced bumps in the central regions. Remarkably similar features occur in our statistical sample of optical emission-line rotation curves of spiral galaxies in tight pairs and n-tuples. 
Observations have not yielded convincing results concerning the form of the stellar initial mass function (IMF) or its variations in space and time, so it is proposed that theoretical models may provide useful guidance. Several classes of theoretical models for the physics controlling the IMF are reviewed, emphasizing the dependence of the results on the probability distribution of velocity and density fluctuations, the spatial density distribution, the softness of the equation of state as controlled by the dominant heating and cooling processes, the ambient radiation field, and the star formation rate itself. One particularly relevant result is the ability of turbulent interactions to form high-density condensations, which should vary with decreasing redshift as the dominant cooling mechanism changes from H$_2$, to fine structure lines, and finally to CO and gas-grain collisions, due to corresponding changes in the effective polytropic exponent. A second theme is the ability of some of these models to produce a characteristic or turnover mass in the IMF which has nothing to do with the Jeans mass. Further development of such models should provide IMFs whose functional dependence can be used as input for simulations of galaxy formation, in which the energy input from massive stars plays a crucial role, and for calculations of the consequences of protogalactic star formation on the subequent evolution of the universe. The probable irrelevance of the concepts of pressure-confined clouds and the formation of condensations by thermal instability in a turbulent interstellar medium is also discussed. 
In a previous paper (Veron et al. 1997) we presented medium resolution (3.4 A FWHM) spectroscopic observations of 15 "transition objects", selected for having an ambiguous location in the Veilleux & Osterbrock (1987) diagnostic diagrams, and showed that most of them were in fact "composite", this being due to the simultaneous presence on the slit of both a Seyfert or Liner nucleus and a HII region. Here, we report new spectroscopic observations of 53 emission-line galaxies with a "transition" spectrum, bringing up to 61 the total number of observed objects in an unbiased sample of 88 "transition objects". Almost all of the observed galaxies have a "composite" nature, confirming the finding that true "transition" spectra may not exist at all. By eliminating "composite objects" from the diagnostic diagrams, a clear separation between the different classes of nuclear emission-line regions (Seyfert 2s, Liners and HII regions) becomes apparent; by restricting the volume occupied by the different line-emitting regions in the 3-dimensional diagnostic diagrams, we are also restricting the range of possible physical parameters in these regions. There seems to be no continuity between Seyfert 2s and Liners, the two classes occupying distinct volumes in the 3-dimensional space defined by [OIII]5007/Hbeta, [NII]6583/Halpha, and [OI]6300/Halpha. 
We present sensitive, high resolution Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) observations of the central 0.3 arcsec of PKS 2322-123 at 1.3 and 5 GHz. These observations reveal straight and symmetric jets emerging from both sides of an inverted spectrum core. The 21 cm line of atomic hydrogen is detected in absorption against the core and eastern jet with substantial opacities, but is not seen towards the equally strong western jet. Both a narrow (110 km/s FWHM) and a very broad (735 km/s FWHM) line are seen, although the very broad line is seen only against the core. Both lines are redshifted (~220 +/- 100 km/s) with respect to the systemic velocity. The most likely explanation for the observed HI kinematics are an atomic torus centered on the nucleus with considerable turbulence and inward streaming motions. The scale height of this torus is less than 20 pc. Though rare in flux limited samples of compact radio sources, symmetric parsec-scale structure appears nearly ubiquitous among radio galaxies with HI absorption, probably because they are viewed more nearly edge-on through the torus. 
We present optical identifications and redshifts for seventeen new high-redshift radio sources. Fifteen of these sources are radio galaxies; the remaining two are high-redshift, steep-spectrum, radio-loud quasars. These objects were discovered as part of an ongoing study of compact (theta < 10 arcsec), moderately steep spectrum (alpha(1.4 GHz;4.8 GHz) > 0.75, S(nu) ~ nu^(-alpha)) sources from the MIT-Green Bank (MG) radio catalog (S(5 GHz) > 50 mJy). Spectra for the optical counterparts were obtained at the W.M. Keck Telescopes and are among the optically faintest radio galaxies thus far identified. Redshifts range between 0.3 and 3.6, with thirteen of the seventeen at redshifts greater than 1.5. Combining these new radio galaxies with two published MG radio galaxy spectra, we synthesize a composite MG radio galaxy spectrum and discuss the properties of these galaxies in comparison to other, more powerful, radio galaxies at similar redshifts. We suggest a radio power-ionization state relation. 
We present results from a preliminary analysis of a recently-completed, multicolor imaging survey of nearby, early-type barred galaxies in the field, carried out with the WIYN telescope and supplemented with archival HST images. This forms a reasonably complete sample of nearby, bright, barred S0 and Sa galaxies in the field. The excellent seeing provided by WIYN allows us to examine the galaxies for central features such as circumnuclear rings and secondary bars; we find some evidence for dust lanes within secondary bars.   The most striking results is the high frequency of double bars: our analysis suggests that at least $\sim 20%$ of barred S0-Sa galaxies possess secondary bars}. We also find an excellent candidate triply barred galaxy: NGC 2681. 
We have used the Low-Resolution Imaging Spectrograph on the Keck II telescope to observe the brown dwarf candidate D04 (Hawkins et al, 1998). The spectrum matches that of a spectral-type M7 dwarf, implying a photospheric temperature of $\approx 2600$K. This is consistent with the available (R-I)$_C$ and (I-K) colours. If the parallax measured by Hawkins et al is correct, then the implication is that D04 has a radius of $\sim 0.035 R_\odot$, or one-third that of Jupiter. This contradicts the predictions made by current stellar models that electron degeneracy leads to nearly constant radii for stars and brown dwarfs at masses below 0.1 M$_\odot$. We suggest that an equally valid interpretation of the data is that D04 is a VB8 analogue at a distance of $\approx 150$ parsecs. 
We have used both the Low-Resolution Imaging Spectrograph and the HIRES echelle spectrograph on the Keck telescopes to obtain spectra of twelve candidate members of the Hyades cluster identified by Leggett and Hawkins (1988, 1989). All of the objects are chromospherically-active, late-type M-dwarfs, with H$\alpha$ equivalent widths varying from 1 to 30\AA. Based on our measured radial velocities, the level of stellar activity and other spectroscopic features, only one of the twelve stars has properties consistent with cluster membership. We consider how this result affects estimates of the luminosity and mass function of the Hyades cluster. Five of the eleven field stars have weak K I 7665/7699\AA and CaH absorption as compared with M-dwarf standards of the same spectral type, suggesting a lower surface gravity. Two of these sources, LH0416+14 and LH0419+15, exhibit significant lithium 6708 \AA absorption. Based partly on parallax measurements by the US Naval Observatory (Harris et al, 1998), we identify all five as likely to be young, pre-main sequence objects in or near the Taurus-Auriga association at distances of between 150 and 250 parsecs. A comparison with theoretical models of pre-main sequence stars indicates masses of less than 0.05 M$_\odot$. 
Using the 20-pixel camera SHARC, we have surveyed the 350 micron emission from a 60 arcminute by 12 arcminute region in the Galactic center. A comparable region has been observed at 800 microns by Lis & Carlstrom (1994); the SHARC map has better spatial resolution and sensitivity to extended emission, however. This paper introduces several features not visible in prior maps of dust emission. We have detected a 10+ pc band of emission peaking at l = -0.14 degrees, b = +0.02 degrees, which is probably associated with the 'negative velocity arc' observed in 13CO (Bally et al. 1988). We suggest an association of a rounded 350 micron feature near the Radio Arc with an expanding shell observed in CS (Tsuboi, Ukita, & Handa 1997). Faint emission at the same Galactic longitude as the Dust Ridge (Lis & Carlstrom 1994) but at opposite latitude is visible as well as a compact source at the base of a thermal radio filament at negative Galactic latitude. Diffuse dust emission within a few arcminutes of the Sgr D core is detected for the first time. 350 micron sources are associated with both H2O masers in Sgr D, but only one out of four OH masers (Mehringer et al. 1998). The mean 350 micron / 800 micron flux ratio for the Galactic center is approximately 17 (beta = 2.0) over the map but is higher (beta = 2.5) in parts of the Dust Ridge and lower in Sgr B2 (N). 
We present optical data gathered by the VLT Test Camera in the V-band at the radio (interferometric) position of PSR1706-44. We find no optical counterpart to the pulsar in the VLT image. At a distance of 2.7 arcsec from a nearby bright star, the 3-sigma upper limit to the pulsar magnitude above the background is V = 25.5. Within an error circle of 1.0 arcsec the upper limit is degraded in the direction towards the star. At a distance < 2 arcsec from the star we can with confidence only claim an upper limit of V = 24.5. This is still several magnitudes fainter than previous estimates. The implications of the optical upper limit taken together with the high energy pulsed gamma-ray radiation for theoretical models of pulsar emission are discussed. 
A future core-collapse supernova in our Galaxy will be detected by several neutrino detectors around the world. The neutrinos escape from the supernova core over several seconds from the time of collapse, unlike the electromagnetic radiation, emitted from the envelope, which is delayed by a time of order hours. In addition, the electromagnetic radiation can be obscured by dust in the intervening interstellar space. The question therefore arises whether a supernova can be located by its neutrinos alone. The early warning of a supernova and its location might allow greatly improved astronomical observations. The theme of the present work is a careful and realistic assessment of this question, taking into account the statistical significance of the various neutrino signals. Not surprisingly, neutrino-electron forward scattering leads to a good determination of the supernova direction, even in the presence of the large and nearly isotropic background from other reactions. Even with the most pessimistic background assumptions, SuperKamiokande (SK) and the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO) can restrict the supernova direction to be within circles of radius $5^\circ$ and $20^\circ$, respectively. Other reactions with more events but weaker angular dependence are much less useful for locating the supernova. Finally, there is the oft-discussed possibility of triangulation, i.e., determination of the supernova direction based on an arrival time delay between different detectors. Given the expected statistics we show that, contrary to previous estimates, this technique does not allow a good determination of the supernova direction. 
We have mapped 16 edge-on galaxies at 20 cm using the VLA. For 5 galaxies, we could form spectral index, energy and magnetic field maps. We find that all but one galaxy show evidence for non-thermal high latitude radio continuum emission, suggesting that cosmic ray halos are common in star forming galaxies. The high latitude emission is seen over a variety of spatial scales and in discrete and/or smooth features. In general, the discrete features emanate from the disk, but estimates of CR diffusion lengths suggest that diffusion alone is insufficient to transport the particles to the high latitudes seen (> 15 kpc in one case). Thus CRs likely diffuse through low density regions and/or are assisted by other mechanisms (e.g. winds). We searched for correlations between the prevalence of high latitude radio emission and a number of other properties, including the global SFR, supernova input rate per unit star forming, and do not find clear correlations with any of these properties. 
Infrared spectra at 1.9-2.5 micron and narrowband photometry of three low-mass objects, DENIS-P J0205.4-1159, J1058.7-1547, and J1228.2-1547, are presented. As shown previously by Delfosse et al. (1997, AA, 327, L25), DENIS-P J0205.4-1159 shows an absorption feature at 2.2 microns. We attribute this absorption to H_2. A simple two-parameter analysis of the K-band spectrum of low-mass objects is presented in which the relative strength of the H_2O and H_2 absorption bands is found to be correlated with the effective temperature of the objects. The analysis confirms that DENIS-P J0205.4-1159 is the lowest-temperature object of the three. We present narrow-band photometry of these objects which provides the continuum flux level inbetween the deep H_2O absorption bands. These data show the continuum level accurately for the first time, and they will provide tight constraints for spectral models of these interesting objects. 
To examine a recently proposed hypothesis that silicon nanoparticles are the source of extended red emission (ERE) in the interstellar medium, we performed a detailed modeling of the mean Galactic extinction in the presence of silicon nanoparticles. For this goal we used the appropriate optical constants of nanosized Si, essentially different from those of bulk Si due to quantum confinement. It was found that a dust mixture of silicon nanoparticles, bare graphite grains, silicate core-organic refractory mantle grains and three-layer silicate-water ice-organic refractory grains works well in explaining the extinction and, in addition, results in the acceptable fractions of UV/visible photons absorbed by silicon nanoparticles: 0.071-0.081. Since these fractions barely agree with the fraction of UV/visible photons needed to excite the observed ERE, we conclude that the intrinsic photon conversion efficiency of the photoluminescence by silicon nanoparticles must be near 100%, if they are the source of the ERE. 
The new observational data on interstellar dust, obtained during the past few years, in particular, revised ISM elemental abundances, the polarization curve from the far UV to the near IR, spectra of dust infrared emission, extended red emission (ERE), are in serious conflict with existing dust models. We proposed here to use the regularization approach as a base for developing a modern dust model, which attempts to self-consistently explain most of the available observational data. 
I briefly review recent developments in the study of circumstellar debris disks, particularly at infrared and sub-millimeter wavelengths, and discuss possible avenues of research for the near future. 
The gamma-ray transfer in supernovae for the purposes of energy deposition in the ejecta can be approximated fairly accurately as frequency-integrated (grey) radiative transfer using a mean opacity as shown by Swartz, Sutherland, & Harkness (SSH). In SSH's grey radiative transfer procedure (unoptimized) the mean opacity is a pure absorption opacity and it is a constant aside from a usually weak composition dependence. In this paper, we present a variation on the SSH procedure which uses multiple mean opacities which have both absorption and scattering components. There is a mean opacity for each order of Compton scattering. A local-state (LS) approximation permits an analytic solution for the gamma-ray transfer of scattered gamma-ray fields. The LS approximation is admittedly crude, but the scattered fields are always of lesser importance to the energy deposition. We call our procedure the LS grey radiative transfer procedure or LS procedure for short. For a standard Type Ia supernova (SN Ia) model the uncertainty in gamma-ray energy deposition is estimated to be of order 10 % or less. The LS procedure code used for this paper can be obtained by request from the author.   For completeness and easy reference, we include in this paper a review of the gamma-ray opacities important in supernovae, a discussion of the appropriate mean opacity prescription, and a discussion of the errors arising from neglecting time-dependent and non-static radiative transfer effects. 
We analyze Keck HIRES observations of a Lyman limit system at z=2.652 toward Q2231-00. These observations afford the most comprehensive study of the physical properties of a LL system to date. By comparing the ionic column densities for Fe^+, Fe^{++}, Si^+, and Si^{3+} against calculations derived from the CLOUDY software package, we have strictly constrained the ionization state of this system. This has enabled us to calculate accurate abundances of a Lyman limit system for the first time at z > 2, e.g., [Fe/H] = -0.5 \pm 0.1. We also derive a total hydrogen column density, log N(H) = 20.73 \pm 0.2, which is comparable to values observed for the damped lya systems.   The system is special for exhibiting CII* 1335 absorption, allowing an estimate of the electron density, n_e = 6.5 \pm 1.3 x 10^{-2} cm^{-3}. Coupling this measurement with our knowledge of the ionization state, we derive the following physical properties: (1) hydrogen volume density, n_H = 5.9 \pm 1.2 x 10^{-2} cm^{-3}, (2) path length, l = 3 \pm 1.6 kpc, and (3) ionizing intensity, log J_{912} = -20.22 \pm 0.21. We point out that a number of the physical properties (e.g. [Fe/H], N(H), n_H) resemble those observed for the damped lya systems, which suggests this system may be the photoionized analog of a damped system. The techniques introduced in this Letter should be applicable to a number of Lyman limit systems and therefore enable a survey of their chemical abundances and other physical properties. 
We explore the possible impact of galactic and extragalactic foregrounds on measurements of the cosmic microwave background (CMB). We find that, given our present understanding of the foregrounds, they are unlikely to qualitatively affect the ability of the MAP and Planck satellites to determine the angular power spectrum of the CMB, the key statistic for constraining cosmological parameters. Sufficiently far from the galactic plane, the only foregrounds that will affect power spectrum determination with any significance are the extragalactic ones. For MAP we find the most troublesome foregrounds are radio point sources and the thermal Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effect. For Planck they are these same radio point sources and the Far Infrared Background. Prior knowledge of the statistics of the SZ component (either via theoretical calculation, or higher frequency observations of just a few percent of the sky, such as will be done by balloon-borne experiments) may significantly improve MAP's determination of the CMB power spectrum. We also explore the foreground impact on MAP and Planck polarization power spectrum measurements. 
A calculation of the expected signal due to Primakoff coherent conversion of solar axions into photons via Bragg scattering in several crystal detectors is presented. The results are confronted with the experimental sensitivities of present and future experiments concluding that the sensitivity of crystal detectors does not challenge the globular cluster limit on the axion-photon coupling g_a. In particular, in the axion mass window m_a ~> 0.03 eV explored with this technique (not accessible at present by other methods) g_a might be constrained down to 10^-9 GeV^-1 (the recent helioseismological bound) provided that significant improvements in the parameters and performances of these detectors be achieved and large statistics accumulated. This bound should be considered as a minimal goal for the sensitivity of future crystal experiments. Consequently, finding a positive signal at this level of sensitivity would necessarily imply revisiting other more stringent astrophysical limits derived for the same range of m_a values. 
Though predictions of the simplest inflationary cosmological models with cold dark matter, flat space and approximately flat initial spectrum of adiabatic perturbations are remarkably close to observational data, we have to go beyond them and to introduce new physics not yet discovered in laboratories to account for all data. Two extensions of these models which seem to be the most actual at present time are discussed. The first one is the possibility that we are living at the beginning of a new inflation-like era. Then classical cosmological tests, like the luminosity distance or the angular size of distant objects as functions of redshift, as well as the behaviour of density perturbations in a dustlike matter component including baryons as a function of redshift, can provide information sufficient for the unambiguous determination of an effective potential of a corresponding present inflaton scalar field. The second, unrelated extension is a possibility of broken-scale-invariant cosmological models which have localized steps or spikes in the primordial perturbation spectrum. These features can be produced by fast phase transitions in physical fields other than an inflaton field in the early Universe during inflation and not far from the end of it. At present, it seems that the only scale in the spectrum around which we might see something of this type is $k=0.05 h Mpc^{-1}$. 
EGRET data on the Gamma ray emission from the inner Galaxy have shown a rather flat spectrum, extending to about 50 GeV. It is usually assumed that these gamma-rays arise from the interactions of cosmic ray nuclei with ambient matter. Cosmic Ray particles have been observed up to 3 10^20 eV, with many arguments suggesting, that up to about 3 10^18 eV they are of Galactic origin. Cosmic ray particles get injected by supernova explosions. Their injected spectrum is steepened by diffusive losses from the Galaxy to yield the observed spectrum. As cosmic ray particles roam around in the Galactic disk, they encounter molecular clouds and through p-p collisions produce gamma rays from pion decay. The flux and spectrum of these gamma rays is then a clear signature of cosmic rays throughout the Galaxy. Star formation activity peaks in the central region of the Galaxy, around the Galactic Center. Looking then at the gamma ray spectrum of the central region of our Galaxy yields clues as to where the cosmic ray particles interact, and with what spectrum. Using the FLUKA Monte-Carlo, we have modelled this spectrum, and find a best fit for a powerlaw spectral index of 2.34, rather close to the suggested injection spectrum for supernovae which explode into their own winds. This suggests that most cosmic ray interaction happens near the sources of injection; this is consistent with the spectrum of cosmic ray nuclei derived from spallation. One consequence is that cosmic ray heating and ionization should be strong in the Galactic Center region. 
We investigate effects of time evolution of a rich cluster of galaxies on its member galactic halos in the standard cold dark matter (SCDM) universe using high resolution N-body simulations. We identify several hundred galactic halos within virial radius of our simulated cluster. We also find that a large number of halos have been tidally disrupted at z = 0. Therefore we improve a method of deriving merging history trees of galaxies taking account of tidally stripped galaxies. 
We will review some results based on the EROS and the on going EROS-2 microlensing surveys to search for dark matter in the Galactic halo via microlensing effects on LMC/SMC stars. Microlensing surveys provide systematic observations for millions of stars over a long period in both Magellanic Clouds and give birth to very powerful database. We will quickly review the results obtained on pulsating stars and we will detail the similarity and differences of the Herbig Ae/Be stars in the Magellanic Clouds compared to their Galactic counterpart. 
The discovery of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) in 1964 by Penzias and Wilson led to the establishment of the hot big-bang cosmological model some ten years later. Discoveries made in 1998 may ultimately have as profound an effect on our understanding of the origin and evolution of the Universe. Taken at face value, they confirm the basic tenets of Inflation + Cold Dark Matter, a bold and expansive theory that addresses all the fundamental questions left unanswered by the hot big-bang model and holds that the Universe is flat, slowly moving elementary particles provide the cosmic infrastructure, and quantum fluctuations seeded all the structure seen in the Universe today. Just as it took a decade to establish the hot big-bang model after the discovery of the CMB, it will likely take another ten years to establish the latest addition to the standard cosmology and make the answer to ``Cosmology Solved?'', ``YES!'' Whether or not 1998 proves to be a cosmic milestone, the coming avalanche of high-quality cosmological data promises to make the next twenty years an extremely exciting period for cosmology. 
The large supercluster structures obvious in recent galaxy redshift surveys are quantified using an one-dimensional cluster analysis (core sampling) and a three-dimensional cluster analysis based on the minimal spanning tree. The comparison with the LCRS reveals promising stable results. At a mean overdensity of about ten, the supercluster systems form huge wall-like structures comprising about 40% of all galaxies. The overdense clusters have a low mean transverse velocity dispersion of about 400 km/s, i.e. they look quite narrow in redshift space. We performed N-body simulations with large box sizes for six cosmological scenarios. The quantitative analysis shows that the observed structures can be understood best in low density models with $\Omega_m \le 0.5$ with or without a cosmological constant. 
For two decades the hot big-bang model as been referred to as the standard cosmology -- and for good reason. For just as long cosmologists have known that there are fundamental questions that are not answered by the standard cosmology and point to a grander theory. The best candidate for that grander theory is inflation + cold dark matter. It holds that the Universe is flat, that slowly moving elementary particles left over from the earliest moments provide the cosmic infrastructure, and that the primeval density inhomogeneities that seed all the structure arose from quantum fluctuations. There is now prima facie evidence that supports two basic tenets of this paradigm. An avalanche of high-quality cosmological observations will soon make this case stronger or will break it. Key questions remain to be answered; foremost among them are: identification and detection of the cold dark matter particles and elucidation of the dark-energy component. These are exciting times in cosmology! 
We present the results of 3D Newtonian SPH simulations of the merger of a neutron star binary. The microscopic properties of matter are described by the physical equation of state of Lattimer and Swesty (LS-EOS). To test for the robustness of our results we check the sensitivity to the approximations of our model as well as to the binary system parameters. The main and new result is that for the realistic LS-EOS, depending on the initial spin, between 4e-3 and 4e-2 solar masses of material become unbound. If, as suggested, large parts of this matter consist of r-process nuclei, neutron star mergers could account for the whole observed r-process material in the Galaxy. 
We try to apply the cosmic crystallography method of Lehoucq, Lachieze-Rey, and Luminet to a universe model with closed spatial section of negative curvature. But the sharp peaks predicted for Einstein-de Sitter closed models do not appear in our hyperbolic example. So we turn to a variant of that method, by subtracting from the distribution of distances between images in the closed model, the similar distribution in Friedmann's open model. The result is a plot with much oscillation in small scales, modulated by a long wavelength quasi-sinusoidal pattern. 
A model is developed for magnetic `propeller'-driven outflows which cause a rapidly rotating magnetized star accreting from a disk to spin-down. Energy and angular momentum lost by the star goes into expelling most of the accreting disk matter. The theory gives an expression for the effective Alfven radius $R_A$ (where the inflowing matter is effectively stopped) which depends on the mass accretion rate, the star's mass and magnetic moment, and the star's rotation rate. The model points to a mechanism for `jumps' between spin-down and spin-up evolution and for the reverse transition, which are changes between two possible equilibrium configurations of the system. In for example the transistion from spin-down to spin-up states the Alfven radius $R_A$ decreases from a value larger than the corotation radius to one which is smaller. In this transistion the `propeller' goes from being ``on'' to being ``off.'' The ratio of the spin-down to spin-up torque (or the ratio for the reverse change) in a jump is shown to be of order unity. 
We explore the possibility that massive black holes comprise a significant fraction of the dark matter of our galaxy by studying the dissolution of galactic globular clusters bombarded by them. In our simulations, we evolve the clusters along a sequence of King models determined by changes of state resulting from collisions with the black holes. The results divide naturally into regimes of `small' and `large' black hole mass. `Small' black holes do not destroy clusters in single collisions; their effect is primarily cumulative, leading to a relation between $\mbh$ and $\fhalo$, the fraction of the halo in black holes of mass $\mbh$, which is $\fhalo\mbh < $ constant (up to logarithmic corrections). For $\fhalo=1$, we find $\mbh \simless 10^{3} \msun$ by requiring survival of the same clusters studied by Moore (1993), who neglected cluster evolution, mass loss, and stochasticity of energy inputs in his estimates, but reached a similar conclusion. `Large' black holes may not penetrate a cluster without disrupting it; their effect is mainly catastrophic (close collisions), but also partly cumulative (distant collisions). In the large $\mbh$ limit, $\fhalo$ (but not $\mbh$) can be constrained by computing the probability that a cluster survives a combination of close, destructive encounters and distant, nondestructive encounters. We find that it is unlikely that $\fhalo \simgreat 0.3$ by requiring 50 per cent survival probability for Moore's clusters over $10^{10}$ years. 
We study neutrino-nucleon scattering and absorption in a dense, magnetized nuclear medium. These are the most important sources of neutrino opacity governing the cooling of a proto-neutron star in the first tens of seconds after its formation. Because the weak interaction is parity violating, the absorption and scattering cross-sections depend asymmetrically on the directions of the neutrino momenta with respect to the magnetic field. We develop the moment formalism of neutrino transport in the presence of such asymmetric opacities and derive explicit expressions for the neutrino flux and other angular moments of the Boltzmann transport equation. For a given neutrino species, there is a drift flux of neutrinos along the magnetic field in addition to the usual diffusive flux. This drift flux depends on the deviation of the neutrino distribution function from thermal equilibrium. Hence, despite the fact that the neutrino cross-sections are asymmetric throughout the star, asymmetric neutrino flux can be generated only in the outer region of the proto-neutron star where the neutrino distribution deviates significantly from thermal equilibrium. In addition to the asymmetric absorption opacity arising from nucleon polarization, we find the contribution of the electron (or positron) ground state Landau level. For neutrinos of energy less than a few times the temperature, this is the dominant source of asymmetric opacity. Lastly, we discuss the implication of our result to the origin of pulsar kicks: in order to generate kick velocity of a few hundred km/s from asymmetric neutrino emission using the parity violation effect, the proto-neutron star must have a dipole magnetic field of at least $10^{15}-10^{16}$ G. 
We have made extensive spectroscopic and photometric observations of PG 1224+309, a close binary containing a DA white dwarf primary and an M4+ secondary. The H alpha line is in emission due to irradiation of the M-star by the hot white dwarf and is seen to vary around the orbit. From the radial velocities of the H alpha line we derive a period of P = 0.258689 +/- 0.000004 days and a semi-amplitude of K_Halpha = 160 +/- 8 km/s. We estimate a correction Delta_K = 21 +/- 2 km/s, where K_M = K_Halpha + Delta_K. Radial velocity variations of the white dwarf reveal a semi-amplitude of K_WD = 112 +/- 14 km/s. The blue spectrum of the white dwarf is well fit by a synthetic spectrum having T_eff = 29,300 K and log(g) = 7.38. The white dwarf contributes 97% of the light at 4500 Angstroms and virtually all of the light blueward of 3800 Angstroms. No eclipses are observed. The mass inferred for the white dwarf depends on the assumed mass of the thin residual hydrogen envelope: 0.40 < M_WD < 0.45 solar masses for hydrogen envelope masses of 0 < M_H < 4.0E-4 solar masses. We argue that the mass of the white dwarf is closer to 0.45 solar masses, hence it appears that the white dwarf has a relatively large residual hydrogen envelope. The mass of the M-star is then M_M = 0.28 +/- 0.05 solar masses, and the inclination is i = 77 +/- 7 degrees. We discuss briefly how PG 1224+309 may be used to constrain theories of close binary star evolution, and the past and future histories of PG 1224+309 itself. The star is both a ``post-common envelope'' star and a ``pre-cataclysmic binary'' star. Mass transfer by Roche-lobe overflow should commence in about 10 Gyr. 
We investigate the kinematics of a combined sample of 74 globular clusters around NGC 1399. Their high velocity dispersion, increasing with radius, supports their association with the gravitational potential of the galaxy cluster rather than with that of NGC 1399 itself. We find no evidence for rotation in the full sample, although some indication for rotation in the outer regions. The data do not allow us to detect differences between the kinematics of the blue and red sub-populations of globular clusters.   A comparison between the globular cluster systems of NGC 1399 and those of NGC 1404 and NGC 1380 indicates that the globular clusters in all three galaxies are likely to have formed via similar mechanisms and at similar epochs. The only property which distinguishes the NGC 1399 globular cluster system from these others is that it is ten times more abundant. We summarize the evidence for associating these excess globulars with the galaxy cluster rather than with NGC 1399 itself, and suggest that the over-abundance can be explained by tidal stripping, at an early epoch, of neighboring galaxies and subsequent accumulation of globulars in the gravitational potential of the galaxy cluster. 
Sticky particle calculations indicate that a coherent structure, a dispersion ring, forms when a cloud on a low angular momentum orbit passes close to the dynamical center of an isothermal sphere containing a central point mass. The cloud is tidally stretched and differentially wrapped, and dissipation in shocks organizes the gas into a precessing off-set elliptical ring which can persist for many rotation periods. The morphology and kinematics of the circumnuclear disk (CND) between 2 and 5 pc and the Northern arm in the inner 1 pc are well-represented by such structures. In the case of the Northern Arm, strong shocks which arise during the formation of the dispersion ring can lead to star formation even in the near tidal field of a massive black hole. 
By means of near-simultaneous multi-wavelength VLBA measurements, we determine for the first time the intrinsic size of Sgr A* to be 3.6 AU by <1 AU with the major axis oriented essentially north-south. Contrary to previous expectation that the intrinsic structure of Sgr A* is observable only at wavelength shorter than 1 mm, we can discern the intrinsic source size at 7~mm because (1) the scattering size along the minor axis is half that along the major axis, and (2) the near simultaneous multi-wavelength mapping of Sgr A* makes it possible to extrapolate precisely the minor axis scattering angle at 7~mm. The intrinsic size and shape place direct constraints on the various theoretical models for Sgr A*. 
We present results based on a Baade-Wesselink analysis of Cepheids in the Small Magellanic Cloud. The Baade-Wesselink analysis provides individual luminosities for these metal-poor Cepheids which combined with recent Baade-Wesselink results from Gieren et al. (1998) on solar metallicity Galactic Cepheids constrain the metallicity effect on the zero-point of the Cepheid P-L relation. A preliminary analysis leads to an effect of dMv / d[Fe/H]= -0.45 +-0.15, metal-rich Cepheids being brighter, in good agreement with several recent independent determinations. An effect of this magnitude reduces significantly the current disagreement between the long and the short distance estimates to the LMC, and favors a shorter value. 
NGC 4736 is a nearby Sab spiral galaxy, hosting one of the closest examples of a LINER nucleus. We have utilized recent observations by ROSAT and ASCA to characterise the X-ray properties of this galaxy. Twelve discrete X-ray sources are detected within the region subtended by its optical disk, the majority of which are likely to be X-ray binaries associated with the galaxy. By far the brightest source in the X-ray band is positionally coincident with the nucleus of the galaxy and is spatially resolved into a component with a radial extent of ~ 3 kpc plus a point-like core. The broad band (0.1-10 keV) spectrum of this nuclear source is composed of a hard continuum with a spectral slope characteristic of that observed in classical Seyfert nuclei (i.e. power-law photon index, Gamma ~ 1.7), with thermal emission (kT = 0.1-0.6 keV) dominant below 2 keV. An Fe K alpha line may also be present at ~ 6.8 keV. There is no evidence for X-ray temporal variability on timescales of hours to years. A plausible model is that the hard continuum originates in a near-quiescent active galactic nucleus (with L_x ~ 6 x 10^39 erg/s, 0.5-10 keV) embedded in the LINER at the centre of NGC 4736. However, an alternative explanation, namely that the LINER is the site of a dense population of X-ray binary sources, cannot be completely excluded. 
In this letter we give an account of the possible acceleration of protons in the outer radio lobes of the active galaxy PKS 1333-33. We also make estimates of the arrival energy spectrum. 
Owing to the dramatic evolution of telescopes as well as optical detectors in the last 20 yrs, we are now able to measure anew the proper motion of the Crab pulsar, after the classical result of Wyckoff and Murray (1977) in a time span 40 times shorter. The proper motion is aligned with the axis of symmetry of the inner Crab nebula and, presumably, with the pulsar spin axis. 
We study vertical structure of radiation pressure dominated disc with a hot corona. We include all the relevant processes like bound--free opacity and convection. We show that the presence of the corona modifies considerably the density and the opacity of the disc surface layers which are important from the point of view of spectrum formation. The surface of the disc with a corona is much denser and less ionized than the surface of a bare disc. Such a disc is likely to produce a neutral reflection and a local spectrum close to a black body. This effect will help to reconcile the predictions of accretion disc models with the observational data since a neutral reflection and a lack of Lyman edge are generally seen in AGN. 
We have obtained HST FOC long-slit optical spectroscopy of the Narrow Line Region of the Seyfert 2 galaxy Mrk 3. In the region cospatial with the radio-jet the velocity field is highly perturbed and shows two velocity systems separated by as much as 1700 km/s. We interpret this to be the consequence of the rapid expansion of a cocoon of hot gas, shocked and heated by the radio-emitting outflow, which compresses and accelerates the ambient gas. The NLR itself is essentially a cylindrical shell expanding supersonically. From the size and velocity of the expanding region, we derive an upper limit to the radio-source age, ~< 1.5 E5 years, and a lower limit for the jet power, ~> 2 E42 erg/s required to inflate the cocoon and estimate that the jet minimum advance speed is 3 E-3 pc per year. The total kinetic energy of the high velocity NLR gas can be estimated as ~6 E54 erg, comparable to the total energy carried by the jet over its lifetime and this quantitatively supports the idea that the NLR gas is accelerated by the jet. If the advance speed of Mrk 3 is representative of the Seyfert population then these sources must also be short lived and probably recurrent. The jet kinetic luminosity of Mrk 3 is between 2 and 3 orders of magnitude smaller than that derived for radio-loud AGNs with similar emission-line luminosity. On the other hand, the fraction of jet power dissipated in radio-emission is similar. We speculate that the main distinction between radio-quiet and radio-loud AGN is ascribed to a difference in jet power rather than to a different efficiency in synchrotron emission production. 
Physical and numerical constraints in building up self-consistent population synthesis models are briefly analysed discussing their application to most of the current synthesis codes widely adopted in Galactic and extragalactic studies. 
We examine the processes which could lead to the observed enhancement of Li and possibly other light elements (Be, B) in the companions of a number of X-ray novae. We conclude that one of the most promising mechanisms is the spallation of CNO elements on the surface of the companion induced by the neutron flux produced in the hot accretion flow onto the compact object. Direct production of the observed Li and its deposition onto the dwarf companion seem less likely, mainly because of the possibility of its destruction in the production region itself and difficulties in its deposition associated with the configuration of the companion's magnetic field. We discuss other potential observables of the above scenario. 
New constraints on the Milky Way's bar parameters are derived from the gaseous spiral structure within the Galactic bar, and in particular from the identification of the dustlanes leading the bar major axis. 
Recently Peebles and Vilenkin proposed and quantitatively analyzed the fascinating idea that a substantial fraction of the present cosmic energy density could reside in the vacuum potential energy of the scalar field responsible for inflation (quintessential inflation). Here we compute the signature of this model in the cosmic microwave background polarization and temperature anisotropies and in the large scale structure. 
We present results of VLA and VLBA observations of the 1.420 GHz neutral hydrogen absorption associated with the Compact Symmetric Object 1946+708 (z=0.101). We find significant structure in the gas on parsec scales. The peak column density in the HI (N_HI~2.2x10^23 cm^-2 (T_s/8000K)) occurs toward the center of activity of the source, as does the highest velocity dispersion (FWHM~350 \kms). In addition, we find that the continuum spectra of the various radio components associated with these jets strongly indicate free-free absorption. This effect is particularly pronounced toward the core and inner components of the receding jet, suggesting the presence of a screen local to the source, perhaps part of an obscuring torus. 
We present high-quality ground-based spectroscopic observations of 54 supergiant H II regions in 50 low-metallicity blue compact galaxies with oxygen abundances 12 + log O/H between 7.1 and 8.3. We use the data to determine abundances for the elements N, O, Ne, S, Ar and Fe. We also analyze Hubble Space Telescope (HST) Faint Object Spectrograph archival spectra of 10 supergiant H II regions to derive C and Si abundances in a subsample of 7 BCGs. The main result of the present study is that none of the heavy element-to-oxygen abundance ratios studied here (C/O, N/O, Ne/O, Si/O, S/O, Ar/O, Fe/O) depend on oxygen abundance for BCGs with 12 + log O/H < 7.6 (Z < Zsun/20). This constancy implies that all these heavy elements have a primary origin and are produced by the same massive (M > 10Msun) stars responsible for O production. The dispersion of the C/O and N/O ratios in these galaxies is found to be remarkably small, being only +/-0.03 dex and +/-0.02 dex respectively. This very small dispersion is strong evidence against any time-delayed production of C and primary N in the lowest-metallicity BCGs (secondary N production is negligible at these low metallicities). The absence of a time-delayed production of C and N is consistent with the scenario that galaxies with 12 + log O/H < 7.6 are undergoing now their first burst of star formation, and that they are therefore young, with ages not exceeding 40 Myr. If very low metallicities BCGs are indeed young, this would argue against the commonly held belief that C and N are produced by intermediate-mass (3Msun < M < 9Msun) stars at very low metallicities, as these stars would not have yet completed their evolution in these lowest metallicity galaxies. 
We present a 2 - 10 keV ASCA observation of the field around the soft gamma repeater SGR1900+14. One quiescent X-ray source was detected in this observation, and it was in the SGR error box. In 2 - 10 keV X-rays, its spectrum may be fit by a power law with index -2.2, and its unabsorbed flux is 9.6 x 10^-12 erg cm^-2 s^-1. We also find a clear 5.16 s period. The properties of the three well-studied soft gamma repeaters are remarkably similar to one another, and provide evidence that all of them are associated with young, strongly magnetized neutron stars in supernova remnants. 
We present a search for high energy gamma-ray emission from 9 nearby starburst galaxies and M31 with the EGRET instrument aboard CGRO. Though the diffuse gamma-ray emission from starburst galaxies was suspected to be detectable, we find no emission from NGC 253, M82 nor from the average of all 9 galaxies. The 2 sigma upper limit for the EGRET flux above 100 MeV for the averaged survey observations is 1.8 x 10-8 ph cm-2 s-1. From a model of the expected radio and gamma-ray emission, we find that the magnetic field in the nuclei of these galaxies is > 25 micro Gauss, and the ratio of proton and electron densities is < 400. The EGRET limits indicate that the rate of massive star formation in the survey galaxies is only about an order of magnitude higher than in the Milky Way. The upper limit to the gamma-ray flux above 100 MeV for M31 is 1.6 x 10-8 ph cm-2 s-1. At the distance of M31, the Milky Way flux would be over twice this value, indicating higher gamma-ray emissivities in our Galaxy. Therefore, since the supernova rate of the Milky Way is higher than in M31, our null detection of M31 supports the theory of the supernova origin of cosmic rays in galaxies. 
In earlier published work, it was proposed that light speed was larger in the early universe by 30 orders of magnitude compared to its presently observed value. This change in the speed of light is associated with a spontaneous breaking of local Lorentz invariance in the early Universe, associated with a first order phase transition at a critical time $t=t_c$. This solves the horizon problem, leads to a mechanism of monopole suppression in cosmology and can resolve the flatness problem. it also offers the potential of solving the cosmological constant problem. After the critical time $t_c$, local Lorentz invariance is restored and light travels at its presently measured speed. We investigate the field equations in the spontaneously broken phase and study further the flatness problem and the cosmological constant problem. The entropy is shown to undergo a large increase as the light velocity goes through a phase transition. A scale invariant prediction for microwave background fluctuations originating at the time of the phase transition is discussed. 
The nearly face-on spiral galaxy NGC 3938 has been observed in the $H_\alpha$ line with the TAURUS II Fabry-Perot interferometer at the William Herschel Telescope in order to study the kinematics of the ionized gas. We are able to construct intensity, velocity and velocity dispersion maps for this galaxy. The rotation curve of the galaxy is calculated up to 4.5 radial scale lengths from the galactic centre. The residual velocity field shows very small values with no systematic pattern. The mean velocity dispersion is approximately constant with radius at about 11 km/s as previously reported for the neutral and molecular gas. We have also studied the relation between intensity and velocity dispersion for the ionized gas. We have found that this distribution is compatible with a turbulent gas relaxing to a Kolmogorov type turbulence as the stationary regime. The average dispersion varies with intensity as $\sigma \propto I^{1/8}$ although it becomes much steeper at higher intensities, for which the dispersion is kept almost constant at a value of about 19 km/s. 
As a first step towards a comprehensive investigation of stellar motions within globular clusters, we present here the results of a study of stellar orbits in a mildly triaxial globular cluster that follows a circular orbit inside a galaxy. The stellar orbits were classified using the frequency analysis code of Carpintero and Aguilar and, as a check, the Liapunov characteristic exponents were also computed in some cases.   The orbit families were obtained using different start spaces. Chaotic orbits turn out to be very common and while, as could be expected, they are particularly abundant in the outer parts of the cluster, they are still significant in the innermost regions. Their relevance for the structure of the cluster is discussed. 
Three popular algorithms (FOF, DENMAX, and SKID) to identify halos in cosmological N-body simulations are compared with each other and with the predicted mass function from Press-Schechter theory. It is shown that the resulting distribution of halo masses strongly depends upon the choice of free parameters in the three algorithms, and therefore much care in their choice is needed. For many parameter values, DENMAX and SKID have the tendency to include in the halos particles at large distances from the halo center with low peculiar velocities. FOF does not suffer from this problem, and its mass distribution furthermore is reproduced well by the prediction from Press-Schechter theory. 
We analyse an N-body simulation of the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), that of Gardiner & Noguchi (1996) to determine its microlensing statistics. We find that the optical depth due to self-lensing in the simulation is low, 0.4 x 10^{-7}, but still consistent (at the 90% level) with that observed by the EROS and MACHO collaborations. This low optical depth is due to the relatively small line of sight thickness of the SMC produced in the simulation. The proper motions and time scales of the simulation are consistent with those observed assuming a standard mass function for stars in the SMC. The time scale distribution from the standard mass function generates a significant fraction of short time scale events: future self-lensing events towards the SMC may have the same time scales as events observed towards the Large Magellanic CLoud (LMC). Although some debris was stripped from the SMC during its collision with the LMC about 2x10^8 yr ago, the optical depth of the LMC due to this debris is low, a few times 10^{-9}, and thus cannot explain the measured optical depth towards the LMC. 
Empirical studies of the first generation of stars and quasars in the Universe will likely become feasible over the next decade. The Next Generation Space Telescope will provide direct imaging and photometry of sub-galactic objects at redshifts above z=10, while microwave anisotropy experiments, such as MAP or Planck, will set constraints on the ionization history of the intergalactic medium due to these sources. We describe the expected signals that will be detectable with these future instruments. 
We present models for dusty high-redshift Lyman alpha emitting galaxies by combining the Press-Schechter formalism with a treatment of inhomogeneous dust distribution inside galaxies. These models reproduce the surface density of emitters inferred from recent observations, and also agree with previous non-detections. Although a detailed determination of the individual model parameters is precluded by uncertainties, we find that (i) the dust content of primordial galaxies builds up in no more than 5x10^8 years, (ii) the galactic HII regions are inhomogeneous with a cloud covering factor of order unity, and (iii) the overall star formation efficiency is at least 5 percent. Future observations should be able to detect Lyman alpha galaxies upto redshifts of about z=8. If the universe is reionized at z(reion)<8, the corresponding decline in the number of Lyman alpha emitters at z>z(reion) could prove to be a useful probe of the reionization epoch. 
Caustic crossing microlensing events provide us a unique opportunity to measure the relative proper motion of the lens to the source, and so those caused by binary MACHOs are of great importance for understanding the structure of the Galactic halo and the nature of MACHOs. The microlensing event 98-SMC-01, occurred in June 1998, is the first event for which the proper motion is ever measured through the caustic crossing, and this event may be caused by binary MACHOs as we argue in this Letter. Motivated by the possible existence of binary MACHOs, we have performed the Monte Carlo simulations of caustic crossing events by binary MACHOs and investigated the properties and detectability of the events. Our calculation shows that typical caustic crossing events have the interval between two caustic crossings ($t_{\rm cc}$) of about 5 days. We argue that with the current strategy of binary event search the proper motions of these typical events are not measurable because of the short time scale. Therefore the proper motion distribution measured from caustic crossing events suffers significantly from {`}time scale bias{'}, which is a bias toward finding long time scale events and hence slowly moving lenses. We predict there are two times more short time scale events ($t_{\rm cc}\le 10$ days) than long time scale events ($t_{\rm cc}\ge 10$ days), and propose an hourly monitoring observation instead of the nightly monitoring currently undertaken to detect caustic crossing events by binary MACHOs more efficiently. 
We present improved timing parameters for 13 millisecond pulsars (MSPs) including 9 new proper motion measurements. These new proper motions bring to 23 the number of MSPs with measured transverse velocities. In light of these new results we present and compare the kinematic properties of MSPs with those of ordinary pulsars. The mean transverse velocity of MSPs was found to be 85+/-13 km/s; a value consistent with most models for the origin and evolution of MSPs and approximately a factor of four lower than that of ordinary pulsars. We also find that, in contrast to young ordinary pulsars, the vast majority of which are moving away from the Galactic plane, almost half of the MSPs are moving towards the plane. This near isotropy would be expected of a population that has reached dynamic equilibrium. Accurate measurements of MSP velocities have allowed us to correct their measured spin-down rates for Doppler acceleration effects, and thereby derive their intrinsic magnetic field strengths and characteristic ages. We find that close to half of our sample of MSPs have a characteristic age comparable to or greater than the age of the Galaxy. 
We present initial results of a survey for star-forming galaxies in the redshift range 3.8 < z < 4.5. This sample consists of a photometric catalog of 244 galaxies culled from a total solid angle of 0.23 square degrees to an apparent magnitude of I_{AB}=25.0. Spectroscopic redshifts in the range 3.61 < z < 4.81 have been obtained for 48 of these galaxies; their median redshift is <z>=4.13. Selecting these galaxies in a manner entirely analogous to our large survey for Lyman break galaxies at smaller redshift (2.7 < z < 3.4) allows a relatively clean differential comparison between the populations and integrated luminosity density at these two cosmic epochs. Over the same range of UV luminosity, the spectroscopic properties of the galaxy samples at z~4 and z~3 are indistinguishable, as are the luminosity function shapes and the total integrated UV luminosity densities (rho_{UV}(z=3)/rho_{UV}(z=4) = 1.1 +/-0.3). We see no evidence at these bright magnitudes for the steep decline in the star formation density inferred from fainter photometric Lyman-break galaxies in the Hubble Deep Field (HDF). If the true luminosity density at z~4 is somewhat higher than implied by the HDF, as our ground-based sample suggests, then the emissivity of star formation as a function of redshift is essentially constant for all z>1 once internally consistent corrections for dust are made. This suggests that there is no obvious peak in star formation activity, and that the onset of substantial star formation in galaxies occurs at z > 4.5. [abridged abstract] 
This paper reviews the current status of measurements of galaxy clustering at high redshifts (z > 0.3). The focus is on the inherent limitations in the observation and interpretation of the ``evolution of clustering''. It is likely that results from the first attempts to characterize galaxy clustering beyond the ``local'' universe have been significantly limited by sample variance, as the difficulty in assembling large samples over large volumes is exacerbated as the observations become more challenging. It is also argued that, because of the complicated relationship between galaxies and mass (i.e., bias), and the surprising degeneracies among different popular cosmological models, it is likely that studies of galaxy clustering as a function of cosmic epoch will never be useful for strong discrimination between different cosmological models. On the other hand, observations of galaxy clustering are capable of testing basic ideas about how (and where) galaxies form. Galaxy formation, as opposed to cosmography, will probably remain a fundamental question even beyond the MAP and Planck era. 
We report our preliminary results on the role of starbursts in LINERs by use of WR galaxies as a tool. The essence of this approach lies in the different FIR-radio relation of WR galaxies from the pure AGN's. 
We derive here the expression for the accretion luminosity, $L(\infty)$, as seen by a distant inertial observer $S_\infty$, for the case of spherical accretion onto a static compact object having a surface gravitational red-shift $z_x$. It is found that the ``efficiency'' for conversion of mass energy into accretion energy is given by $\epsilon = z_x/(1+z_x)$. And since the maximum value of $z_x$ permitted by General Theory of Relativity (GTR) is 2, the maximum theoretical value of the accretion efficiency is 66.66%. 
We describe a non-parametric method for determining both the anisotropy and mass profiles of elliptical galaxies from velocity dispersions and velocity profile shapes along the line of sight. In this way, mass-to-light ratios out to 2-3 effective radii can be derived from stellar absorption line spectroscopy. We discuss two illustrative cases, NGC 1399 and NGC 6703. So far, all ellipticals which have been analysed show evidence for dark matter dominating in the outer parts. The circular velocity curves are nearly flat, as in spiral galaxies. 
We have discovered a ~1 Hz quasi-periodic oscillation (QPO) in the persistent-emission, the dips, and the type I X-ray bursts of the low-mass X-ray binary 4U 1323-62. The rms amplitude of the QPO is approximately 9%, only weakly depending on photon energy. The amplitude is consistent with being constant throughout the persistent-emission, the dips and the bursts in all but one observation, where it is much weaker during one dip. These properties suggest that we have observed a new type of QPO, which is caused by quasi-periodic obscuration of the central X-ray source by a structure in the accretion disk. This can only occur when the binary inclination is high, consistent with the fact that 4U 1323-62 is a dipping source. The quasi-periodic obscuration could take place by partial covering of an extended central X-ray source by a near-opaque medium, or by covering of a point source by a medium of suitable characteristics to produce the relatively energy-independent oscillations. 
Contribution to the gamma-ray background (GRB) by galaxies bright in the far-IR (FIR) is discussed. Using observational correlations between the FIR and synchrotron emission in radio wavelengths, it is shown that the concentration of cosmic ray electrons in FIR luminous galaxies is substantially higher than in the general population of galaxies. Microwave background and intrinsic galaxy radiation scattered via the inverse Compton (IC) effect by cosmic ray electrons into high energies makes the FIR galaxies relatively strong gamma-ray sources (in comparison with normal galaxies).x Using the FIR galaxy luminosity function and the relationship between FIR and radio luminosities, the contribution (due to the IC only) of FIR luminous galaxies to the GRB above ~ 1 MeV is estimated at 10 to 25 % depending on the rate of cosmic evolution of star burst galaxies. This is substantially larger than the normal galaxies contribution. To obtain more accurate assessment of relationship between the GRB and FIR galaxies, gamma-ray observations of individual galaxies bright in the FIR are required. 
We have performed a successful targetted search for a population of red radio-quiet, and probably absorbed, quasars. Radio-quiet, optically-red ROSAT PSPC X-ray sources brighter than 10^{-13} erg cm^{-2} s^{-1} were searched for red (O-E > 2.0, O < 20) counterparts in the APM catalog of Palomar Sky Survey objects. Of 45 objects for which we obtained adequate follow-up optical spectroscopy, we have found 7 red quasars, 5 with alpha(opt) < -2. Their redshifts range from 0.06 to 0.31, and their luminosities are moderate, lying on the Seyfert/Quasar boundary. These red quasars strengthen the case for a radio-quiet population that is the counterpart of the radio-loud red quasars found by Smith and Spinrad (1980), and Webster et al. (1995). Unidentified, fainter, sources could increase the fraction of red quasars by up to a factor 7.   For the red quasars found here, the H-alpha/H-beta ratios, optical slope and X-ray colors all indicate that they are absorbed by A(V) ~ 2, rather than having intrinsically red spectra. This amount of obscuration seems to hide ~1-7% of quasars at a given observed flux, or ~3-20% when their fluxes are corrected to their intrinsic values. This size of population is consistent with earlier limits, with predicted values from Comastri et al. (1995), and is comparable to the rate found among radio-loud quasars.   A large population of more heavily absorbed (A(V)=5), fainter, quasars equal in size to the blue population could exist, without violating existing upper limits, in accord with the Comastri et al. (1995) predictions. 
Hubble Space Telescope (HST) observations provide a novel way of testing unified models for FR I radio sources and BL Lac objects. The detection of extended dust discs in some radio galaxies provides information on their jet orientation. Given this, the strength of the compact nuclear sources of FR I and BL Lacs can be compared with model predictions. As a pilot project, we selected five radio galaxies which show extended nuclear discs in the HST images. The relative orientation of the projected radio-jets and of the extended nuclear discs indicates that they are not perpendicular, as the simplest geometrical model would suggest, but that they form an angle of ~ 20 - 40 degrees with the symmetry axis of the disc: a significant change of orientation occurs between the innermost AGN structure and the kpc-scale. Nevertheless, the discs appear to be useful indicators of the radio sources orientation since the angles formed by the disc axis and the jet with the line of sight differ by only ~ 10 - 20 degrees. At the center of each disc an unresolved nuclear source is present. We compared its luminosity with the optical core luminosity of BL Lacs selected for having similar host galaxy magnitude and extended radio luminosity. The BL Lac cores are between 2 E2 and 3 E5 times brighter than the corresponding radio galaxies ones. The FR I/BL Lac core luminosity ratio shows a suggestive correlation with the orientation of the radio galaxies with respect to the line of sight. The behavior of this ratio is quantitatively consistent with a scenario in which the emission in the FR I and BL Lac is dominated by the beamed radiation from a relativistic jet with Doppler factor ~ 5 - 10, thus supporting the basic features of the proposed unification schemes. 
We study cosmological density fluctuations within a covariant and gauge-invariant fluid-flow approach for a perfect fluid in the Einstein-Cartan gravity and derive the corresponding Raychaudhuri type of inhomogeneous coupled differential evolution equations of the second order. It appears that the quantum fluctuations of spin trigger primordial density inhomogeneities at the scale of weak interactions. These inhomogeneities are then evolved precisely to the value measured be COBE mission at the scale of decoupling. 
The relevance of galaxies of different luminosity and mass for the chemical enrichment of the intracluster medium (ICM) is analysed. For this purpose, I adopt the composite luminosity function of cluster galaxies from Trentham (1998), which exhibits a significant rise at the very faint end. The model - adopting a universal Salpeter IMF - is calibrated on reproducing the M_Fe/L_tot, M_Fe/M_*, and alpha/Fe ratios observed in clusters. Although the contribution to total luminosity and ICM metals peaks around L* galaxies (M* approx -20), faint objects with M_B>-18 still provide at least 30 per cent of the metals present in the ICM. In consistency with the solar alpha/Fe ratios determined by {ASCA}, the model predicts that 60 per cent of the ICM iron comes from Type Ia supernovae. The predicted slope of the relation between intracluster gas mass and cluster luminosity emerges shallower than the observed one, indicating that the fraction of primordial gas increases with cluster richness. 
Several studies have indicated that the local cosmic velocity field is rather cold, in particular in the regions outside the massive, virialized clusters of galaxies. If our local cosmic environment is taken to be a representative volume of the Universe, the repercussion of this finding is that either we live in a low-$\Omega$ Universe and/or that the galaxy distribution is a biased reflection of the underlying mass distribution. Otherwise, the pronounced nature of the observed galaxy distribution would be irreconcilable with the relatively quiet flow of the galaxies.   Here we propose a different view on this cosmic dilemma, stressing the fact that our cosmic neighbourhood embodies a region of rather particular dynamical properties, and henceforth we are apt to infer flawed conclusions with respect to the global Universe. Suspended between two huge mass concentrations, the Great Attractor region and the Perseus-Pisces chain, we find ourselves in a region of relatively low density yet with a very strong tidal shear. This tidal field induces a local velocity field with a significant large-scale bulk flow but a low small-scale velocity dispersion. By means of constrained realizations of our local Universe, consisting of Wiener-filtered reconstructions inferred from the Mark III catalogue of galaxy peculiar velocities in combination with appropriate spectrally determined fluctuations, we study the implications for our local velocity field. We find that we live near a local peak in the distribution of the cosmic Mach number, $|v_{bulk}|/\sigma_v$, and that our local cosmic niche is located in the tail of the Mach number distribution function. 
In 1998 May, the soft gamma repeater SGR1900+14 emerged from several years of quiescence and emitted a series of intense bursts, one with a time history unlike any previously observed from this source. Triangulation using Ulysses, BATSE, and KONUS data give a 1.6 square arcminute error box near the galactic supernova remnant G42.8+0.6. This error box contains a quiescent soft X-ray source which is probably a neutron star associated with the soft repeater. 
We present model X-ray spectra of accreting black holes with advection-dominated accretion flows, paying attention to thermal emission lines from the hot plasma. We show that the Advanced X-ray Astrophysical Facility (AXAF) might be able to observe lines from X-ray binaries such as V404 Cyg in quiescence, the Galactic Center black hole Sagittarius A*, and the nuclei of nearby galaxies such as M87. Line intensities can provide new diagnostics to study the accreting plasma in these and related systems. 
A substellar-mass object in orbit at about 300 astronomical units (AU) from the young low-mass star G196-3 was detected by direct imaging. Optical and infrared photometry and low- and intermediate-resolution spectroscopy of the faint companion, hereafter referred to as G196-3B, confirms its cool atmosphere and allows its mass to be estimated at 25^{+15}_{-10} Jupiter masses. The separation between both objects and their mass ratio suggest the fragmentation of a collapsing cloud as the most likely origin for G196-3B, but alternatively it could have originated from a proto-planetary disc which has been dissipated. Whatever the formation process was, the young age of the primary star (about 100 Myr) demonstrates that substellar companions can form in short time scales. 
We present detailed evolutionary calculations for carbon   - oxygen - and helium - core white dwarf (WD) models with masses ranging from M= 0.1 to M= 1.2 solar masses and for metallicities Z= 0.001 and Z= 0. The sequences cover a wide range of hydrogen envelopes as well. We employed a detailed WD evolutionary code. In particular, the energy transport by convectcion is treated within the formalism of the full spectrum turbulence theory. The set of models presented here is very detailed and should be valuable for the interpretation of the observational data on low - mass WDs recently discovered in numerous binary configurations and also for the general problem of determining the theoretical luminosity function for WDs. In this context, we compare our cooling sequences with the observed WD luminosity function recently improved by Leggett, Ruiz and Bergeron (1998) and we obtain an age for the Galactic disc of approximately 8 Gyr. Finally, we applied the results of this paper to derive stellar masses of a sample of low - mass white dwarfs. 
We compute mass outflow rate $R_{\dot m}$ from relativistic matter accreting quasi-spherically onto Schwarzschild black holes. Taking the pair-plasma pressure mediated shock surface as the {\it effective} boundary layer (of the black hole) from where bulk of the outflow is assumed to be generated, computation of this rate is done using combinations of exact transonic inflow and outflow solutions. We find that $R_{\dot m}$ depends on the initial parameters of the flow, the polytropic index of matter, the degree of compression of matter near the shock surface and on the location of the shock surface itself. We thus not only study the variation of the mass outflow rate as a function of various physical parameters governing the problem but also provide a sufficiently plausible estimation of this rate. 
The last decade of research on elliptical galaxies has produced a wealth of new information concerning both their detailed structure and their global scaling relations. We review the old and new results about isophote shapes and subcomponents (Sect. 1), scaling relations of global parameters and redshift evolution (Sect. 2), and the ages, metallicities (Sect. 3) and abundance ratios (Sect. 4). Finally, we confront the observations with hierarchical formation scenarios of elliptical galaxies (Sect. 5). The picture emerging from this variety of observational evidence is broadly consistent with the merging scenario of hierarchical structure formation models, but the stellar population properties of ellipticals pose some challanges. The formation of ellipticals must have always involved some dissipation. The gas fraction at the last major merger event presumably has strong influence on their present day properties. Most elliptical galaxies are old systems, but disky ellipticals might be younger than boxy objects and have more extended star formation histories. The small scatter and the redshift variations of the scaling relation are compatible with passive evolution. The high Mg/Fe overabundances of luminous (boxy) ellipticals point to a rapid star formation episode, while low-luminosity objects have values of Mg/Fe nearly solar, allowing for an extended star formation history. 
A method, based on the disc instability model, for testing the thermal stability of Cataclysmic Variables (CVs), is presented. It is shown that the border line between thermal stability and instability is crossed during some nova outbursts and decays, however it is not clear whether this is the general behaviour. We suggest two new evolutionary scenarios for short orbital period CVs. One of them is the analogy for the 'modified hibernation scenario' and the other is an extension of the ideas of Mukai and Naylor (1993) for long orbital period CVs. We conclude that the observations have not favoured one of the two models. Finally, we speculate the existence of a new type of nova - an AM CVn like nova. 
The GRAPE-4, the world's fastest computer in 1995-1997, has produced some major scientific results, through a wide diversity of large-scale simulations in astrophysics. Applications have ranged from planetary formation, through the evolution of star clusters and galactic nuclei, to the formation of galaxies and clusters of galaxies. 
The next decade will be an exciting time for computational physicists. After 50 years of being forced to use standardized commercial equipment, it will finally become relatively straightforward to adapt one's computing tools to one's own needs. The breakthrough that opens this new era is the now wide-spread availability of programmable chips that allow virtually every computational scientist to design his or her own special-purpose computer. 
We have analyzed archival Ginga data of a number of Soft X-ray Transient sources and modelled them in an attempt to constrain the geometry and physical properties of accretion. Our models include a self-consistent description of X-ray reprocessing, linking the properties of the reflected continuum and those of the iron fluorescence K\alpha line, and allowing for relativistic smearing of spectral features. We derive constraints on the inner extent of the disk and its ionization, assuming a generic geometry of a central X-ray source and an external accretion disk.   Fitting our models to the data we have found that in some sources - GS 1124-68 (Nova Muscae 1991) and GS 2000+25 - the evolution during decline proceeded in qualitative agreement with recent theoretical models based on advection-dominated solutions of accretion flow. These models link the high/soft-low/hard transition with a change of geometry, most importantly, the inner radius of the optically thick disk. Quantitatively, our analysis requires serious revision of the model assumptions.   A remarkably exceptional case is that of GS 2023+338, where the source behavior both during outburst and decline was quite different than the other, more ``standard'' ones. However, we found that the source did go into the high/soft state, contrary to claims in literature. 
In this paper we show how non-radial motions, originating from the tidal interaction of the irregular mass distribution within and around protoclusters, can solve some of the problems of the CDM model. Firstly the discrepancy between the CDM predicted two-points correlation function of clusters and the observed one. We compare the two-points correlation function, that we obtain taking account of non-radial motions, with that obtained by Sutherland & Efstathiou (1991) from the analysis of Geller & Hucra's (1988) deep redshift survey and with the data points for the APM clusters obtained by Efstathiou et al. (1992). Secondly the problem of the X-ray clusters abundance over-production predicted by the CDM model. In this case we compare the X-ray temperature distribution function, calculated using Press-Schechter theory and Evrard's (1990) prescriptions for the mass-temperature relation, taking also account of the non-radial motions, with Henry & Arnaud (1991) and Edge et al. (1990) X-ray temperature distributions for local clusters. We find that in both cases the model is in good agreement with experimental data. Finally we calculate the bias coefficient using a selection function that takes into account the effects of non-radial motions, and we show that the bias so obtained can account for a substantial part of the total bias required by observations on cluster scales. 
We have studied the evolution of primordial black holes (PBHs) in a universe with a variable gravitational constant and bulk viscosity. We have found that the strength of gravity has changed appreciably in the early universe. The gravitational constant attained its greatest value at t=10^{-23} sec after the Big Bang. PBHs formed at the GUT and electroweak epochs would have masses about $1.85\times 10^9 g$ and $1.8\times 10^{-7} g$ respectively. Their temperatures when they explode are $6\times 10^8K$ and 6 K respectively. PBHs formed during nuclear epoch are hard to detect at the present time. The gravitational constant ($G$) is found to increase as $G\propto t^2$ in the radiation epoch. The gamma rays bursts (GRBs) may have their origin in the evaporation of the PBHs formed during GUT time. 
We use detailed modeling of stellar populations of nearby galaxies to calculate population parameters. Our sample of galaxies includes most galaxies of the Local Group and several more distant giant galaxies. Available data are sufficient to decompose galaxies into the nucleus, the metal rich core, the bulge, the halo, the young and old disks, and the dark halo. We compare mass-to-luminosity ratios and colors of bulges, disks and halos with results of models of galactic chemical evolution. The luminosity weighted mean of the mass-to-luminosity ratio of visible stellar population is M/L_B = 4 +- 1.4 in solar units. This ratio is surprisingly constant for galaxies of very different absolute magnitude. 
Asymmetries in the distribution of light and neutral hydrogen are often observed in spiral galaxies. Here, attention is drawn to the presence of large-scale asymmetries in their kinematics. Two examples of kinematically lopsided galaxies are presented and discussed. The shape of the rotation curve --rising more steeply on one side of the galaxy than on the other-- is the signature of the kinematic lopsidedness. It is shown that kinematic lopsidedness may be related to lopsidedness in the potential, and that even a mild perturbation in the latter can produce significant kinematical effects. Probably at least half of all spiral galaxies are lopsided. 
We present the discovery of a new gravitational lens system with two compact radio images separated by 0.701+-0.001 arcsec. The lens system was discovered in the Cosmic Lens All Sky Survey (CLASS) as a flat spectrum radio source. Both radio components show structure in a VLBA 8.4 GHz radio image. No further extended structure is seen in either the VLA, MERLIN or VLBA images. Hubble Space Telescope (HST) WFPC2 images in F555W and F814W show two extended objects close to the radio components, which we identify as two lens galaxies. Their colours and mass-to-light ratios seem to favour two late-type spiral galaxies at relatively high redshifts (z_d>~0.5). Faint emission is also detected at positions corresponding to the radio images.   A two-lens mass model can explain the observed VLBA structure. The best fit model has a reduced chi^2 of 1.1. The relative positions of the VLBA subcomponents are reproduced within 0.08 mas, the flux density ratios within 0.19. We also reproduce the position angle and separation of the two VLBA subcomponents in A and B within the observational errors, which we consider strong evidence for the validity of the lens model. Moreover, we find a surface density axis ratio of 0.74^{+0.10}_{-0.12} for the primary lens (G1), consistent with the surface brightness axis ratio of 0.69+-0.15. Also, the surface density position angle of 4.9^{+28.2}_{-22.4} degree of G1 compares well with the -6+-13 degree position angle of the surface brightness distribution. The errors indicate the 99 per cent confidence interval. 
We study the influence of the assumption behind the use of the inverse Tully-Fisher relation: that there should be no observational cutoffs in the TF parameter log(V_M). It is noted how lower and upper cutoffs would be seen in a log(H_0) vs. ``normalized distance'' diagram. Analytical expressions, under the simplifying assumption of a normal distribution and the use of the correct TF slope, are derived for the resulting biases, especially the average bias which log(V_M) cutoffs produce in the derived value of H_0. This bias is shown to be relatively weak, and as such cannot explain the large differences in the reported values of H_0 derived from direct and inverse TF relations.   Some problems of slope and calibration are shown to be more serious. In particular, one consequence of fitting through the calibrators either the slope relevant for field galaxies or the steeper slope followed by calibrators is that the derived value of the Hubble constant comes to depend on the nature of the calibrator sample. If the calibrator sample is not representative of the cosmic distribution of log(V_M), large errors in the derived value of H_0 are possible. Analytical expressions are given for this error that we term the calibrator sample bias. 
We present H-alpha and red continuum observations for a sample of late-type low surface brightness (LSB) dwarf irregular galaxies(DIGs), consisting of all the m_B<17.2 ImIV and V galaxies in the Virgo cluster (VC), and compare them with a representative sample of VC high surface brightness (HSB) DIGs. Line fluxes and equivalent widths are listed for individual HII regions and total H-alpha emission is measured for the entire DIG. The HII regions we identified do not produce all the line emission. For LSBs with line emission we find star formation rates (SFR) of 6.9-43.0 10^{-3} M_sol/yr, ~10x weaker than for HSB objects. About 2 HII regions are detected per LSB galaxy; they are smaller and fainter than in HSB galaxies in the VC, have line equivalent widths ~50% of those in HSBs, and cover similar fractions of the galaxies. The line-emitting regions of LSB galaxies are preferentially located at the periphery of a galaxy, while in HSBs they tend to be central. The line strength of an HII region is correlated with the red continuum light underneath the region. No fundamental differences were identified in the star formation properties of the LSB and HSB dwarf galaxies we studied and infer that these galaxies must be similar, with the difference being the intensity of the present star-formation burst. 
It is thought that many characteristics of the gaseous features within the central parsec of our Galaxy, are associated with the accretion of ambient plasma by a central concentration of mass. Using a 3D hydrodynamical code, we have been simulating this process in order to realistically model the gaseous flows in the center of our Galaxy. In the most recent simulation, we have taken into account the multi-point-like distribution of stellar wind sources, as well as the magnetic heating and radiative cooling of these stellar winds. As expected, we find that the structure of the flow is significantly different from that due to a uniform medium. We also investigate the possibility that Sgr A* is due to a distributed mass concentration instead of the canonical point mass of a black hole. We discuss the physical state of the accreting gas and how our results suggest that Sgr A* is unlikely to be associated with a ``dark cluster''. 
We calculate the mean power spectrum of galaxies using published power spectra of galaxies and clusters of galaxies. The mean power spectrum has a relatively sharp maximum on scale 120 Mpc (for Hubble constant h=1), followed by an almost exact power-law spectrum of index n = -1.9 toward smaller scales. The power spectrum found from APM 2-D galaxy distribution and from LCRS and IRAS 1.2 Jy surveys is flatter around the maximum. Power spectra of galaxies and matter are similar in shape, we find the bias parameter of galaxies relative to matter 1.3 + - 0.1. We compare the empirical power spectrum of matter with analytical power spectra and show that the primordial power spectrum has a break in amplitude and a spike. 
We extend, for the case of a general scalar potential, the inflaton-graviton Feynman rules recently developed by Iliopoulos {\it et al.} As an application we compute the leading term, for late co-moving times, of the one loop back reaction on the expansion rate for $V(\phi) = \frac12 m^2 \phi^2$. This is expressed as the logarithmic time derivative of the scale factor in the coordinate system for which the expectation value of the metric has the form: $<0 | g_{\mu\nu}({\bar t},{\vec x}) | 0 > dx^{\mu} dx^{\nu} = - d{\bar t}^2 + a^2({\bar t}) d{\vec x} \cdot d{\vec x}$. This quantity should be a gauge independent observable. Our result for it agrees exactly with that inferred from the effect previously computed by Mukhanov {\it et al.} using canonical quantization. It is significant that the two calculations were made with completely different schemes for fixing the gauge, and that our computation was done using the standard formalism of covariant quantization. This should settle some of the issues recently raised by Unruh. 
We consider quantum mechanical corrections to a homogeneous, isotropic and spatially flat geometry whose scale factor expands classically as a general power of the co-moving time. The effects of both gravitons and the scalar inflaton are computed at one loop using the manifestly causal formalism of Schwinger with the Feynman rules recently developed by Iliopoulos {\it et al.} We find no significant effect, in marked contrast with the result obtained by Mukhanov {\it et al.} for chaotic inflation based on a quadratic potential. By applying the canonical technique of Mukhanov {\it et al.} to the exponential potentials of power law inflation, we show that the two methods produce the same results, within the approximations employed, for these backgrounds. We therefore conclude that the shape of the inflaton potential can have an enormous impact on the one loop back-reaction. 
Recent analysis of the distribution of clusters of galaxies is reviewed. Clusters of galaxies located in rich superclusters form a quasiregular lattice. The mean power spectrum of galaxies and clusters has been found, it has a peak at wavelength $\lambda_0=120$~\Mpc corresponding to the lattice step. The power spectrum of galaxies is reduced to that of matter. The empirical power spectrum is compared with theoretical spectra for mixed dark matter models, and primordial power spectra are calculated. The primordial power spectrum has a peak which may be due to processes during the inflationary stage of the structure evolution. 
The ROSAT mission gave us the unique possibility to study the galactic interstellar medium by ``shadowing'' observations on arcmin angular resolution level. The high sensitivity of the ROSAT PSPC in combination with the large field of view allows the detailed study of individual clouds, while the ROSAT all-sky survey is the main source for studies of the large-scale intensity distribution of the diffuse soft X-ray emission.   We show that neutral hydrogen clouds are associated with soft X-ray emission, E(X-ray) < 3/4 keV. These neutral hydrogen clouds, known as high-velocity clouds (HVCs), are located partly within the galactic halo, and partly in intergalactic space. The ROSAT detection of soft X-ray emission from some of these HVCs is the first detection of HVCs in emission other than HI 21-cm line radiation. 
Possible observational consequences of dark matter in the Galaxy in the form of dense molecular gas clouds - clumpuscules of masses $M_c\sim 10^{-3} \msun$ and radii $R_c\sim 3\times 10^{13}$ cm - are considered. Recent models of the extreme scattering events - refraction of radio-waves from quasars in dense plasma clumps in the Galactic halo - definitely show on such clouds as possible dark matter candidate. We argue that collisions of such clumpuscules are quite frequent: around $1-10 \msun$ a year can be ejected in the interstellar medium due to collisions. Optical continuum and 21 cm emissions from post-collisional gas are found to be observable. We show that clumpuscules can form around O stars HII regions of sizes $R\sim 30$ pc and emission measure $EM\simeq 20 cm^{-6}$ pc, and can also be observable in $H_\alpha$ emission. Evaporation of clumpuscules by external ionizing radiation can be a substantial mass source.   From requirement that the total mass input on the Hubble time cannot exceed the luminous mass in the Galaxy, typical radius of clouds is constrained as $R_c < 3.5\times 10^{12}$ cm, and their contribution to surface mass density as 50 $\msun pc^{-2}$. It is argued that dissipation of kinetic energy of the gas ejected by such clouds can be an efficient energy source for the Galactic halo. 
We study the hypothesis that high-velocity clouds (HVCs) may originate from instabilities within the gaseous phase of the Galactic halo. According to the hydrostatic equilibrium model of Kalberla & Kerp (1998), we determine the probability distribution of occurrence of instabilities within the Galactic halo. Instabilities may produce condensations within the Galactic halo beyond a z-distances of 4 kpc, which are accelerated by gravity and decelerated by drag-forces. We present evidence that the HI high-velocity dispersion component, discovered by Kalberla et al. (1998) is associated with high-velocity-halo gas. The physical properties of this high-velocity-halo gas are similar to the recently detected highly-ionized HVCs by Sembach et al. (1995, 1998). Accordingly, the HI high-velocity dispersion component may be the neutral tracer of the turbulent gas motions within the Galactic halo. Our calculations demonstrate, that the sky-averaged signal of in-falling condensations does not differ significantly from the HI emission of the turbulent Galactic halo gas. 
The X-ray burster 1E1724-3045 located in the globular cluster Terzan 2 is known as one of the persistent (though variable) hard X-ray sources as shown by the SIGMA observations of the Galactic Center region. 1E1724-3045 was observed with the PCA and HEXTE experiments onboard the RXTE on November 1996 for about 100 ksec. The broad band spectral capability and sensitivity of RXTE enables us to study simultaneously the X-ray (2-20 keV) and hard X-ray components (E>20 keV) of this source. During the observation, this ``Atoll'' source was in its ``Island'' state characterized by a hard Comptomized spectrum with an electron temperature kTe~29 keV, an optical depth of 2.9 (spherical geometry) and a temperature for the ``seed'' photons of 1.2 keV. Below 5 keV, there is a soft excess which we fit with a blackbody of kTbb=0.7 keV. The Comptonization temperature is significantly lower those observed for black holes candidates in their low luminosity states (kTe >~ 50 keV). Finally, our observation allows us to associate the presence of an hard tail with a low luminosity X-ray state (1-20 keV luminosity of 10^37 erg/s at 7.7 kpc). 
We investigate cosmological effects concerning the late-time entropy production due to the decay of non-relativistic massive particles. The thermalization process of neutrinos after the entropy production is properly solved by using the Boltzmann equation. If a large entropy production takes place at late time t$\simeq$ 1 sec, it is found that a large fraction of neutrinos cannot be thermalized. This fact loosens the tight constraint on the reheating temperature T_R from the big bang nucleosynthesis and T_R could be as low as 0.5 MeV. The influence on the large scale structure formation and cosmic microwave background anisotropies is also discussed. 
In 1998 several papers claim the detection of an ubiquitous gaseous phase within the Galactic halo. Here we like to focus on the detections of X-ray emitting gas within the Galactic halo as well as the discovery of a pervasive neutral Galactic halo gas. We discuss critically the major differences between the recent publications as well as the limitations of the analyses. 
We investigated a hydrostatic equilibrium model of the Milky Way following Parker (1966), to constrain the large scale properties of the interstellar medium. In our approach we found an excellent agreement between our simple hydrostatic equilibrium model of the Milky Way and the recent all-sky survey data rangeing from the gamma-ray to the radio regime. On large scales the galactic disk-halo system is found to be stable against Parker-instabilities. Pressure support from the Galactic disk is essential to stabilise the halo. In particular the diffuse ionised gas layer acts as a disk-halo interface. Assuming that the distribution of the soft X-ray emitting plasma traces the gravitational potential, we derived the dark matter content of the Milky Way to be about M ~ 2.8 10^11 M_o. Our findings are consistent with the rotation curve of the Galaxy. 
We have developed a method for selecting the most luminous galaxies detected by IRAS based on their extreme values of R, the ratio of 60 micron and B-band luminosity. These objects have optical counterparts that are close to or below the limits of Schmidt surveys. We have tested our method on a 1079 deg^2 region of sky, where we have selected a sample of IRAS sources with 60 micron flux densities greater than 0.2 Jy, corresponding to a redshift limit z~1 for objects with far-IR luminosities of 10^{13} L_sun. Optical identifications for these were obtained from the UK Schmidt Telescope plates, using the likelihood ratio method. Optical spectroscopy has been carried out to reliably identify and measure the redshifts of six objects with very faint optical counterparts, which are the only objects with R>100 in the sample. One object is a hyperluminous infrared galaxy (HyLIG) at z=0.834. Of the remaining, fainter objects, five are ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIGs) with a mean redshift of 0.45, higher than the highest known redshift of any non-hyperluminous ULIG prior to this study. High excitation lines reveal the presence of an active nucleus in the HyLIG, just as in the other known infrared-selected HyLIGs. In contrast, no high excitation lines are found in the non-hyperluminous ULIGs. We discuss the implications of our results for the number density of HyLIGs at z<1 and for the evolution of the infrared galaxy population out to this redshift, and show that substantial evolution is indicated. Our selection method is robust against the presence of gravitational lensing if the optical and infrared magnification factors are similar, and we suggest a way of using it to select candidate gravitationally lensed infrared galaxies. 
Classical modelling suggests that, during the RXTE observations studied, GRS 1915+105 was near or above the critical accretion rate and the optically thick inner disk penetrated inside the advection-dominated flow. The system was very unstable leading to a rich pattern of variability, e.g. the Rings which might be characteristic to disk instabilities very close to the innermost stable orbit (Vilhu and Nevalainen, 1998, ApJ 508, L85). Small values of R_in obtained require a rapidly rotating Kerr hole, unless the central mass is smaller than 2-3 solar masses. A thermal sombrero provides a reasonable modelling of the rings, although the broad-band RXTE/OSSE spectrum analysed seems to require a significant injection of relativistic electrons, the hot phase being not a pure thermal one. Observations below 2 keV and simultaneous broad-band spectra between 2--400 keV are needed to better fix the size of the black body disk and the role of relativistic injection. Further, theoretical work on emerging spectra of Kerr-holes is required to replace the classical model used. 
A sample of subdwarfs with accurate space velocities and standarized metallicities is presented. This was constructed by combining Hipparcos parallaxes ond proper motions with radial velocities and metallicities from Carney et al. (1994; CLLA). The accurate Hipparcos parallaxes lead to an - upward - correction factor of 11% of the photometric distance scale of CLLA. The kinematical behaviour of the subdwarfs is discussed in particular in relation to their metallicities. Most of the stars turn out to be thick disk stars, but the sample contains also many genuine halo stars. While the extreme metal poor halo does not rotate, a population of subdwarfs with metallicities in the range -1.6 < [Fe/H] < -1.0 dex appears to rotate around the galactic center with a mean rotation speed of about 100 km/s. 
Soft gamma repeaters are high-energy transient sources associated with neutron stars in young supernova remnants. They emit sporadic, short (~ 0.1 s) bursts with soft energy spectra during periods of intense activity. The event of March 5, 1979 was the most intense and the only clearly periodic one to date. Here we report on an even more intense burst on August 27, 1998, from a different soft gamma repeater, which displayed a hard energy spectrum at its peak, and was followed by a ~300 s long tail with a soft energy spectrum and a dramatic 5.16 s period. Its peak and time integrated energy fluxes at Earth are the largest yet observed from any cosmic source. This event was probably initiated by a massive disruption of the neutron star crust, followed by an outflow of energetic particles rotating with the period of the star. Comparison of these two bursts supports the idea that magnetic energy plays an important role, and that such giant flares, while rare, are not unique, and may occur at any time in the neutron star's activity cycle. 
The AGILE $\gamma$-ray telescope (Tavani et al. 1998) will have a relatively uniform sensitivity over a very wide field of view. This allows to simultaneously monitor several AGN's and to react quickly with multiwavelength observations in the case of flaring activity. The large cumulative sky coverage will also lead to a significant increase in the number of $\gamma$-ray emitting AGN's known at the end of the mission. 
The Workshop 'The Magellanic Clouds and Other Dwarf Galaxies' was held at the Physikzentrum Bad Honnef in January 1998. The proceedings comprise 79 contributions. About 1/3 of the 352 pages contain the following Reviews:   The Violent Interstellar Medium in Dwarf Galaxies: Atomic Gas (Elias Brinks and Fabian Walter),   Hot Gas in the Large Magellanic Cloud (You-Hua Chu),   Astrophysics of Dwarf Galaxies: Structures and Stellar Populations (John S. Gallagher),   Star-forming regions and ionized gas in irregular galaxies (Deidre A. Hunter),   The Law of Star Formation in Disk Galaxies (Joachim Koeppen),   Strange Dark Matters in Nearby Dwarf Galaxies (Mario Mateo),   Holes and Shells in Galaxies: Observations versus Theoretical Concepts (Jan Palous),   Detailed Recent Star Formation Histories of Dwarf Irregular Galaxies and Their Many Uses (Evan D. Skillman et al.), and   Nearby Young Dwarf Galaxies (Trinh X. Thuan and Yuri I. Izotov). See the complete electronic version for further details. 
The algorithm is proposed which by combination of the files with the events from linac and with the final data events from the observation of solar neutrinos enables to check correctness of the data treatment used in SuperKamiokande experiment. 
For two decades the hot big-bang model as been referred to as the standard cosmology -- and for good reason. For just as long cosmologists have known that there are fundamental questions that are not answered by the standard cosmology and point to a grander theory. The best candidate for that grander theory is inflation + cold dark matter; it can extend our understanding of the Universe back to 10^-32 sec. There is now prima facie evidence for the two basic tenets of this new paradigm: flat Universe and scale-invariant spectrum of Gaussian density perturbations, and an avalanche of telling cosmological observations is coming. If inflation + cold dark matter is correct, then there are new, fundamental questions to be answered, most notably the nature of the dark energy that seems to account for 60% of the critical density and how inflation fits into a unified theory of the forces and particles. These are exciting times in cosmology! 
We calculate the expected number of strongly lensed radio sources in a sample of 6500 sources observed with the Very Large Array as part of the Cosmic Lens All Sky Survey (CLASS) during the first two sessions of its observations. A comparison between the predicted and the observed number of lensed radio sources allows a determination of the current value of Omega-Lambda. If there are six strongly lensed sources in this sample, our 95% confidence upper limit on Lambda in a flat universe is 0.79. Instead of considering a simple cosmological constant, we also consider the possibility of a quintessence scalar field responsible for the additional energy density of the universe. We present our constraints on the Omega_x-w plane. We discuss the region allowed by combined gravitational lensing statistics, high redshift Type Ia supernovae distances, and globular cluster ages.   Instead of a cosmological model, we can constrain the redshift distribution of faint radio sources based on the observed gravitational lensing rate and an assumed cosmological model. If there are six strongly lensed sources, the 68% confidence upper limit on the average redshift of radio sources with flux densities less than 150 mJy at 8.4 GHz is <z> < 1.4 + (Omega-Lambda) \pm 0.1. In order to obtain a much tighter estimate on the cosmological parameters, it is essential that the redshift distribution for radio sources at the faint flux density levels be observationally determined. We strongly recommend that statistically complete optical spectroscopic programs be carried out to obtain redshifts for a representative subsample of faint background radio sources. 
The results of X-ray observations of Galactic superluminal jet source GRS 1915+105 during its low luminosity state and state transitions in October, 1996 - April, 1997 with PCA and HEXTE instruments aboard Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) are reported. Except some peculiarities, the major spectral and temporal properties of the source during this period were similar to that of the Galactic black hole candidates in the intermediate state (corresponding to the transition between the canonical high and low states). The power law component of the spectrum gradually hardens with decrease of the source flux in the 3 - 150 keV energy band. The 2 - 10 Hz QPOs were found to be a generic feature of the power density spectrum in this state. The changes of the QPO centroid frequency are strongly correlated with the changes of spectral and timing parameters (in particular parameters of the soft spectral component). This type of correlation holds on the wide range of time scales (from seconds to months). Overall trend of the spectral and temporal properties suggests that with further drop of the source flux (below the values observed during the reported period) they would match the canonical values for a low state of the Galactic black hole candidates. 
Deep images of the Centaurus and Coma clusters reveal two spectacular arcs of diffuse light that stretch for over 100 kpc, yet are just a few kpc wide. At a surface brightness of m_b \sim 27-28th arcsec^-2, the Centaurus arc is the most striking example known of structure in the diffuse light component of a rich galaxy cluster. We use numerical simulations to show that the Centaurus feature can be reproduced by the tidal debris of a spiral galaxy that has been tidally disrupted by the gravitational potential of NGC 4709. The surface brightness and narrow dimensions of the diffuse light suggest that the disk was co-rotating with its orbital path past pericentre. Features this prominent in clusters will be relatively rare, although at fainter surface brightness levels the diffuse light will reveal a wealth of structure. Deeper imaging surveys may be able to trace this feature for several times its presently observed extent and somewhere along the tidal debris, a fraction of the original stellar component of the disk will remain bound, but transformed into a faint spheroidal galaxy. It should be possible to confirm the galactic origin of the Centaurus arc by observing planetary nebulae along its length with redshifts close to that of NGC 4709. 
We examine the recent claims that cosmic gamma-ray bursts are associated with either radio-quiet quasars or Abell clusters. These associations were based on positional coincidences between cataloged quasars or Abell clusters, and selected events from the BATSE 3B catalog of gamma-ray bursts. We use a larger sample of gamma-ray bursts with more accurate positions, obtained by the 3rd Interplanetary Network, to re-evaluate these possible associations. We find no evidence for either. 
We present high resolution optical echelle spectra and IUE observations during a strong flare on 1993 December 22 in the very active, young, rapidly rotating, single K2 dwarf LQ Hya. The initial impulsive phase of the flare, which started sometime between 2:42 UT and 4:07 UT, was characterized by strong optical continuum enhancement and blue-shifted emission lines with broad wings. The optical chromospheric lines reached their maximum intensity at $\approx$5:31 UT, by which time the blue-shift vanished and the optical continuum enhancement had sharply decreased. Thereafter, the line emission slowly decreased and the lines red-shift in a gradual phase that lasted at least two more hours. The Mg II lines behaved similarly. Quiescent C IV flux levels were not recovered until 21 hours later, though a data gap and a possible second flare make the interpretation uncertain. In addition to the typically flare-enhanced emission lines (e.g., H_alpha and H_beta), we observe He I D_3 going into emission, plus excess emission (after subtraction of the quiescent spectrum) in other He I and several strong neutral metal lines (e.g., Mg I b). Flare enhancement of the far UV continuum generally agrees with a Si I recombination model. We estimate the total flare energy, and discuss the broad components, asymmetries, and Doppler shifts seen in some of the emission lines. 
GPS sources are the objects of choice to study the initial evolution of extragalactic radio sources, since it is most likely that they are the young counterparts of large scale radio sources. Correlations found between their peak frequency, peak flux density and angular size provide strong evidence that synchrotron self absorption is the cause of the spectral turnovers, and indicate that young radio sources evolve in a self-similar way. The difference in redshift distribution between young and old radio sources must be due to a difference in slope of their luminosity functions, and we argue that this slope is strongly affected by the luminosity evolution of the individual sources. A luminosity evolution scenario is proposed in which GPS sources increase in luminosity and large scale radio sources decrease in luminosity with time. It is shown that such a scenario agrees with the local luminosity function of GPS galaxies. 
For the first time, we have a plausible, complete accounting of matter and energy in the Universe. Expressed a fraction of the critical density it goes like this: neutrinos, between 0.3% and 15%; stars, 0.5%; baryons (total), 5%; matter (total), 40%; smooth, dark energy, 60%; adding up to the critical density. This accounting is consistent with the inflationary prediction of a flat Universe and defines three dark-matter problems: Where are the dark baryons? What is the nonbaryonic dark matter? What is the nature of the dark energy? The leading candidate for the (optically) dark baryons is diffuse hot gas; the leading candidates for the nonbaryonic dark matter are slowly moving elementary particles left over from the earliest moments (cold dark matter), such as axions or neutralinos; the leading candidates for the dark energy involve fundamental physics and include a cosmological constant (vacuum energy), a rolling scalar field (quintessence), and light, frustrated topological defects. 
We imaged the X-ray error box of GRB 980703, beginning 22.5 hours after the gamma--ray event, in both the optical R and near-infrared H bands. A fading optical/IR object was detected within the X-ray error box, coincident with the variable radio source reported by Frail et al. (1998a), who also detected the optical transient independently of us. Further imagery revealed the GRB host galaxy, with R = 22.49 +/- 0.04 and H = 20.5 +/- 0.25, the brightest so far detected. When excluding its contribution to the total flux, both the R and H-band light curves are well-fit by a power-law decay with index alpha~1.4. Our data suggest an intrinsic column density in the host galaxy of ~ 3.5 x 10^21 cm^-2 which indicates the existence of a dense and rich-gas medium in which the GRB occurred, thus supporting the hypernova model scenarios. 
We present the analysis of archival data from the Advanced Satellite for Cosmology and Astrophysics} (ASCA) of the supernova remnant (SNR) G39.2-0.3. G39.2-0.3 has been sometimes characterized as a shell-like remnant in the literature but our high-energy imaging and spectral analysis show the unambiguous composite nature of the remnant. We find that part of the contribution to G39.2-0.3's X-ray emission is distinctly non-thermal, best described by a power law with a photon index ($2.53^{\rm +0.34}_{\rm -0.27}$). The region of emission is consistent with a point source (extension consistent with the point spread function of the detector at the off-axis angle of the observation) and is roughly defined by a circle of radius of about 4 arcmin. A second contribution comes from a thermal component which contributes flux primarily at low energies. Despite the absence of any pulsed emission detected from the compact source, we argue that the emission is most probably due to a rotating compact object that is powering the detected synchrotron nebula within the SNR. \\ 
Live $^{60}$Fe has recently been reported in a deep-ocean ferromanganese crust. Analysis of the isotopic ratios in the sample suggests that the measured $^{60}$Fe abundance exceeds the levels generated by terrestrial and cosmogenic sources, and it has been proposed that the excess of $^{60}$Fe is a signature of a supernova that exploded near the earth several Myr ago. In this paper, we consider the possible background sources, and confirm that the measured $^{60}$Fe is significantly higher than all known backgrounds, in contrast with the reported abundance of live $^{53}$Mn. We discuss scenarios in which the data are consistent with a supernova event at a distance $D \sim 30$ pc and an epoch $t_{\rm SN} \sim 5$ Myr ago. We propose tests that could confirm or refute the interpretation of the $^{60}$Fe discovery, including searches for $^{10}$Be, $^{129}$I and $^{146}$Sm. Such a nearby supernova event might have had some impact on the earth's biosphere, principally by enhancing the cosmic-ray flux. This might have damaged the earth's ozone layer, enhancing the penetration of solar ultraviolet radiation. In this connection, we comment on the Middle Miocene and Pliocene mini-extinction events. We also speculate on the possibility of a supernova-induced "cosmic-ray winter," if cosmic rays play a significant role in seeding cloud formation. 
We consider the prospects for detecting weak gravitational lensing by underdensities (voids) in the large-scale matter distribution. We derive the basic expressions for magnification and distortion by spherical voids. Clustering of the background sources and cosmic variance are the main factors which limit in principle the detection of lensing by voids. We conclude that only voids with radii larger than $\sim 100$ \hm have lensing signal to noise larger than unity. 
This review addresses the current observational status of the Baldwin Effect (BE), an empirical anti-correlation between emission line equivalent width and source luminosity for active galactic nuclei. We provide a brief history of the BE, and discuss selection effects and analysis methods relevant to its study. Existing research points to a number of detailed patterns in the BE, involving emission-line profiles and ionization, luminosity range, and radio properties, that provide clues to the underlying physics driving the correlation. We present a comparative analysis of the "global" BE for AGN ensembles and the "intrinsic" BE seen in variable Seyfert nuclei, and also examine similarities and differences in BEs reported in the optical/UV and X-ray bandpasses. A summary of measurements for quasars at high redshift (z > 4) suggests that the BE persists among these extreme objects. We close with an assessment of current needs and future opportunities for strengthening the observational picture of the BE. 
We investigate observational constraints from lensing statistics and high-z type Ia supernovae on flat cosmological models with nonrelativistic matter and an exotic fluid with equation of state, $p_x=(m/3 -1)\rho_x$. We show that agreement with both tests at the 68% confidence level is possible if the parameter $m$ is low ($m \lesssim 0.85$) and $0.24 \lesssim \Omega_{m0} \lesssim 0.38$ with lower values of $\Omega_{m0}$ corresponding to higher $m$. We find that a conventional cosmological constant model with $\Omega_{m0}\simeq 0.33$ is the best fit model of the combined likelihood. 
We discuss some of the cosmological constraints on the evolution and persistence of life in the Universe and in hypothetical universes other than our own. We highlight the role played by the age and size of the universe, and discuss the interplay between the main-sequence stellar lifetime and the biological evolution time scale. The consequences of different versions of the inflationary universe scenario are briefly described in the light of limits on the possible variation in the values of the constants of Nature. 
A five-parameter expression for a smoothly broken power law is presented. It is used to fit Gamma-Ray Burst (GRB) spectra observed by BATSE. The function is compared to previously used four-parameter functions, such as a sharply broken power law and the Band et al. (1993) function. The presented function exists as a WINGSPAN routine at http://www.astro.su.se/~felix/wing.html 
It is shown that the modern equations of state for neutron star matter based on microscopic calculations of symmetric and asymmetric nuclear matter are compatible with the lower bound on the maximum neutron-star mass for a certain range of hyperon coupling constants, which are constrained by the binding energies of hyperons in symmetric nuclear matter. The hyperons are included by means of the relativistic Hartree-- or Hartree--Fock approximation. The obtained couplings are also in satisfactory agreement with hypernuclei data in the relativistic Hartree scheme. Within the relativistic Hartree--Fock approximation hypernuclei have not been investigated so far. 
We draw a quantitative comparison of the distribution of the galaxies and the intra-cluster gas in the Virgo cluster by extending the morphological analysis by Binggeli et al. (1987) to the intra-cluster gas. We use the Virgo Cluster Catalog in combination with data from the ROSAT All-Sky Survey. The galaxy distribution and the gas distribution are relatively similar. In both wavebands the irregular structure of Virgo can be decomposed into three major subclusters centred on M87, M49, and M86. A new statistical method of subcluster decomposition is applied. Radial galaxy and X-ray density profiles of the three subclusters are fitted with beta-models, allowing analytic deprojection. Comparison of these profiles reveals, that there is no general luminosity segregation. The gas density profile is steeper than the galaxy density profile in the inner part, while this trend is reversed in the outer part. A comparison among the subclusters shows the poorer the subcluster the steeper its radial profile, i.e. the more compact it is, both in the optical and the X-rays. The subcluster profiles for different Hubble types confirm the well-known result that the distribution of the late-type galaxies is more extended than the early types. Differential and integrated mass density profiles of the different components in the M87 and M49 subclusters are presented. The total, gravitating mass is inferred from the distribution of the X-ray gas. In the M87 subcluster the gas mass is about three times the mass in galaxies, while it accounts only for 8% to 14% of the total mass at 0.4 and 1 Mpc, respectively. In the M49 subcluster there is more mass in the galaxies than in the gas and the gas-to-total mass fraction is only 1%, which is unusually low for a cluster. The mass-to-light ratios show relatively constant values around 500Msol/Lsol. 
In hierarchical models, where spheroidals are primarily produced via the merger of disk galaxies, the number of intrinsically red systems at faint limits will be substantially lower than that expected in "traditional" models where the bulk of star formation was completed at high redshifts. We analyse the optical--near-infrared colour distribution of a large flux-limited sample of field spheroidal galaxies identified morphologically from archival Hubble Space Telescope data. The $I_{814}-HK'$ colour distribution for a sample jointly limited at $I_{814}<$23 mag and $HK'<$19.5 mag is used to constrain the star formation history of elliptical and S0 galaxies. We detect a significant deficit of intrinsically red spheroids. From limited spectroscopic and deeper photometric redshift data, we demonstrate that this deficit results from a strong evolutionary effect. The space density of spheroidals of all colours at faint limits is lower than expected for a population of constant comoving density. We conclude that field ellipticals cannot have formed all of their stars at high redshift, as has been suggested for the bulk of their clustered counterparts. We compare alternative evolutionary histories with our data, including an analytical representation of recent models based on the hierarchical assembly of ellipticals, which provides a better, though not ideal fit. The accumulation of spectroscopic redshifts for our sample will allow a quantitative discrimination between models with extended star formation. 
Finite temperature field theory is used to calculate the correction to the mass of the electron in plasma with finite temperature and arbitrary chemical potential, and the results are applied to the core regions of type II supernovae (SNe). It is shown that the effective electron mass varies between 1 MeV at the edge of the SN core up to 11 MeV near the center. This changed electron mass affects the rates of the electroweak processes which involve electrons and positrons. Due to the high electron chemical potential, the total emissivities and absorptivities of interactions involving electrons are only reduced a fraction of a percent. However, for interactions involving positrons, the emissivities and absorptivities are reduced by up to 20 percent. This is of particular significance for the reaction antineutrino + proton <-> positron + neutron which is a source of opacity for antineutrinos in the cores of type II SNe. 
We present a comprehensive study of ISO cluster galaxies in connection with other wavelengths. First results show that infrared galaxies detected by ISOCAM concentrate on the edge of clusters. Surprisingly, they are not emission lines galaxies but very luminous elliptical, merging or interacting ones, which suggests non-trivial connections between star formation rate, optical and mid-IR properties. However, no correlation has been found between the MIR/optical star formation properties of the galaxies, so that the exact origin of the IR emission remains unclear. 
Although a strong similarity between radio galaxies and Seyferts has been pointed out with ASCA, some radio galaxies do not seem to fit very well the cold thin accretion disk model proposed for radio quiet AGN. The BeppoSAX observations of 3C390.3 and Centaurus A show that cold material responsible for the photon reprocessing is present in these sources but not necessarily near to the primary X-ray source. The featureless spectrum of the broad line radio galaxy 3C111 indicates the absence of cold material near the X-ray source or, alternatively, the presence of a strong jet X-ray component. 
The Be star sample of Steele et al. (1998) has a distribution of v sin i's that is luminosity dependant, with giants having lower projected rotational velocities than dwarfs. We show that this effect can be understood simply in terms of angular momentum conservation during the evolution from dwarf to giant. Any decretion disk or other angular momentum losing mechanism for such objects must cause a loss of no more than 15 per-cent of the stellar angular momentum over the Be phase lifetime. 
X-ray observations of clusters at different redshifts are presented and compared. For the nearest cluster -- the Virgo cluster -- we show a comparison of the galaxy distribution and the distribution of the intra-cluster gas. Although the Virgo cluster has such an irregular structure, it seems that within each of the subclusters some kind of equilibrium has already established. X-ray observations of distant lensing clusters reveal very different properties. The large range of X-ray properties without any obvious correlation between them shows that cluster evolution is complex, i.e. not every cluster is evolving in the same way. A comparison of nearby clusters and distant clusters shows that there is no clear trend with time in any of the X-ray properties, which favours a low-Omega universe. 
Spallative nucleosynthesis is thought to be the only process capable of producing significant amount of Beryllium (Be) in the universe. Therefore, both energetic particles (EPs) and nuclei to be spalled (most efficiently C, N and O nuclei in this case) are required, which indicates that supernovae (SNe) may be directly involved in the synthesis of the Be nuclei observed in the halo stars of the Galaxy. We apply current knowledge relating to supernova remnant (SNR) evolution and particle shock acceleration to calculate the total Be yield associated with a SN explosion in the interstellar medium, focusing on the first stages of Galactic chemical evolution (i.e. when metallicity Z < 0.01 Z_odot) We show that dynamical aspects must be taken into account carefully, and present analytical calculations of the spallation reactions induced by the EPs accelerated at both the forward and the reverse shocks following the SN explosion. Our results show that the production of Be in the early Galaxy is still poorly understood, and probably implies either selective acceleration processes (greatly favouring CNO acceleration), reconsideration of the observational data (notably the O vs. Fe correlation), or even new energy sources. 
We present the first significant detection of relativistic smearing of the X-ray reflection spectrum from the putative accretion disk in the low/hard state of Cyg X--1. The ionization state, and amount of relativistic smearing are simultaneously constrained by the X-ray spectra, and we conclude that the disk is not strongly ionised, does not generally extend down to the last stable orbit at 3 Schwarzschild radii and covers rather less than half the sky as seen from the X-ray source. These results are consistent with a geometry where the optically thick disk truncates at a few tens of Schwarzschild radii, with the inner region occupied by the X-ray hot, optically thin(ish) plasma. Such a geometry is also inferred from previous studies of the reflected spectrum in Galactic Black Hole transient sources, and from detailed considerations of the overall continuum spectral shape, suggesting that there is some robust instability which disrupts the inner accretion disk in low/hard state Galactic Black Holes. 
We present Interplanetary Network localization information for 218 gamma-ray bursts in the 3rd BATSE catalog, obtained by analyzing the arrival times of these bursts at the Ulysses and Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory (CGRO) spacecraft. For any given burst observed by these two spacecraft, arrival time analysis (or "triangulation") results in an annulus of possible arrival directions whose half-width varies between 7 arcseconds and 32 arcminutes, depending on the intensity and time history of the burst, and the distance of the Ulysses spacecraft from Earth. This annulus generally intersects the BATSE error circle, resulting in an average reduction of the error box area of a factor of 30. 
We present a reanalysis of the outburst radial velocity data for X-Ray Nova Scorpii 1994. Using a model based on X-ray heating of the secondary star we suggest a more realistic treatment of the radial velocity data. Solutions are obtained in the (K_2,q) plane which, when combined with the published value for the binary mass ratio and inclination, constrain the mass of the black hole to within the region 4.1<M_1<6.6 Msun (90 per cent confidence), which is significantly lower than the value obtained by Orosz & Bailyn (1997). This reduced lower bound for the black hole mass together with the high space velocity of the system is consistent with the idea that it was formed by the post-supernova collapse of a neutron star. 
QSOs and radio-galaxies, together with the CMB, ``normal'' galaxies and clusters, represent the main source of information about the origin and evolution of the Large Scale Structure. They can be used either directly, as tracers of the density peaks, or as cosmic lighthouses, probing the Universe along the line of sight with their conspicuous flow of photons. The amplitude of the QSO clustering has been measured to be $r_o \simeq 6 \hmpc$ at $z\sim 2$ and appears to increase with redshift. These properties are consistent with a scenario in which the quasars, with a lifetime of $t \sim 10^8 yr$, sparsely sample halos of mass greater than $M_{min} \sim 10^{12}-10^{13} h^{-1}$ M$_{\odot}$. Radio-galaxies are found to cluster on similar scales. The study of QSO and radio-galaxy environments is in qualitative agreement with their clustering properties. Absorption-line systems observed in high-resolution spectra of QSOs show structure, including voids/underdensities and overdensities, from the smallest scales to tens of Mpc. QSO pairs, groups and lenses allow us to get a 3-D glimpse of the absorbers, providing invaluable information about their size, ionization, mass. Great progress in this field is expected from the new instrumentation coming into operation at the 8-m class telescopes. 
The frequency of barred spiral galaxies as a function of redshift contains important information on the gravitational influence of stellar disks in their dark matter halos and also may distinguish between contemporary theories for the origin of galactic bulges. In this paper we present a new quantitative method for determining the strength of barred spiral structure, and verify its robustness to redshift-dependent effects. By combining galaxy samples from the Hubble Deep Field North with newly available data from the Hubble Deep Field South, we are able to define a statistical sample of 18 objectively-defined low-inclination barred spiral systems with $I_{814W}<23.2$ mag. Analysing the proportion of barred spiral galaxies seen as a function of redshift, we find a significant decline in the barred fraction beyond redshifts $z\simeq 0.5$. The physical significance of this effect remains unclear, but several possibilities include dynamically hotter (or increasingly dark-matter dominated) high-redshift discs, or an enhanced efficiency in bar destruction at high redshifts. By investigating the formation of the ``orthogonal'' axis of Hubble's classification tuning fork, our result complements studies of evolution in the early--late sequence, and pushes to later epochs the redshift at which the Hubble classification sequence is observed to be in place. 
We investigate the clustering of dark matter halos in Lagrangian space in terms of their two-point correlation function, spanning more than 4 orders of magnitudes of halo masses. Analyzing a set of collisionless scale-free 128^3-particle N-body simulations with spectral indices n = -2,-1, we measure the first two Lagrangian bias parameters b_1 and b_2 relating halo and mass correlations. We find that the Mo & White leading-order formula for b_1 describes the clustering of halos with mass M ~ M_* quite accurately, where M_* indicates the characteristic non-linear mass. Smaller halos turn out to be less clustered in Lagrangian space than predicted by Mo & White. Our findings are consistent with the recent results of Jing for the clustering of halo populations in Eulerian space, demonstrating that the discrepancies between the N-body and analytical Mo & White prediction for the bias exist already in Lagrangian space. This shows that a more refined theoretical algorithm for selecting halos in the initial conditions needs to be developed. Finally, we present a very accurate fitting formula for the linear halo bias factor b_1 in Lagrangian space. 
The successful discovery of X-ray, optical and radio afterglows of gamma-ray bursts has significantly helped our understanding of these sources, and made possible the identification of host galaxies at cosmological distances. The energy release inferred rivals that of supernovae, while its photon energy output may considerably exceed it. Current models envisage this to be the outcome of a cataclysmic stellar event leading to a relativistically expanding fireball, in which particles are accelerated at shocks and produce nonthermal radiation. The substantial agreement between observations and the theoretical predictions of the fireball shock model provide confirmation of the basic aspects of this scenario. The continued observations show a diversity of behavior, providing valuable constraints for more detailed models. 
We present the PLANET photometric dataset for the binary-lens microlensing event MACHO 97-BLG-28 consisting of 696 I and V-band measurements, and analyze it to determine the radial surface brightness profile of the Galactic bulge source star. The microlensed source, demonstrated to be a K giant by our independent spectroscopy, crossed the central isolated cusp of the lensing binary, generating a sharp peak in the light curve that was well-resolved by dense (3 - 30 minute) and continuous monitoring from PLANET sites in Chile, South Africa, and Australia. Our modeling of these data has produced stellar profiles for the source star in the I and V bands that are in excellent agreement with those predicted by stellar atmospheric models for K giants. The limb-darkening coefficients presented here are the first derived from microlensing, among the first for normal giants by any technique, and the first for any star as distant as the Galactic bulge. Modeling indicates that the lensing binary has a mass ratio q = 0.23 and an (instantaneous) separation in units of the angular Einstein ring radius of d = 0.69 . For a lens in the Galactic bulge, this corresponds to a typical stellar binary with a projected separation between 1 and 2 AU. If the lens lies closer, the separation is smaller, and one or both of the lens objects is in the brown dwarf regime. Assuming that the source is a bulge K2 giant at 8 kpc, the relative lens-source proper motion is mu = 19.4 +/- 2.6 km/s /kpc, consistent with a disk or bulge lens. If the non-lensed blended light is due to a single star, it is likely to be a young white dwarf in the bulge, consistent with the blended light coming from the lens itself. 
We present predictions for the one-point probability distribution and cumulants of the transmitted QSO flux in the high redshift Lyman-$\alpha$ Forest. We make use of the correlation between the Lyman-$\alpha$ optical depth and the underlying matter density predicted by gravitational instability theory and seen in numerical hydrodynamic simulations. We have modelled the growth of matter fluctuations using the non-linear shear-free dynamics, an approximation which reproduces well the results of perturbation theory for the cumulants in the linear and weakly non-linear clustering regime. As high matter overdensities tend to saturate in spectra, the statistics of the flux distribution are dominated by weakly non-linear overdensities. As a result, our analytic approach can produce accurate predictions, when tested against N-body simulation results, even when the underlying matter field has rms fluctuations larger than unity. Our treatment can be applied to either Gaussian or non-Gaussian initial conditions. Here we concentrate on the former case, but also include a study of a specific non-Gaussian model. We discuss how the methods and predictions we present can be used as a tool to study the generic clustering properties of the \lya forest at high-redshift.   With such an approach, rather than concentrating on simulating specific cosmological models, we may be in the position to directly test our assumptions for the Gaussian nature of the initial conditions, and the gravitational instability origin of structure itself. In a separate paper we present results for two-point statistics. 
We present J, H and K-band images and 0.9-2.5 micron spectra of the nuclear regions of Centaurus A obtained with IRIS on the AAT. While K band has a point source coincident with the nucleus, at H and J we identify diffuse structure extending to the NE as a possible ionisation cone. By considering the NIR colours we show that the point-like K-band emission originates not from the nucleus itself, but from dust which has been shock heated by nuclear outflows. A J-K image reveals a band of high extinction across the nucleus lying perpendicular to the radio jet axis, as suggested by previous authors (Israel et al. 1990, Turner et al. 1992). We model the detailed structure of this extinction image with a circumnuclear torus of diameter 240+/-20 pc, thickness 75+/-4 pc, tilt 80+/-2 degrees to the line of sight and with the torus and radio jet axes aligned. 
Warped accretion discs in Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) exert a torque on the black hole that tends to align the rotation axis with the angular momentum of the outer disc. We compute the magnitude of this torque by solving numerically for the steady state shape of the warped disc, and verify that the analytic solution of Scheuer and Feiler (1996) provides an excellent approximation. We generalise these results for discs with strong warps and arbitrary surface density profiles, and calculate the timescale on which the black hole becomes aligned with the angular momentum in the outer disc. For massive holes and accretion rates of the order of the Eddington limit the alignment timescale is always short (less than a Myr), so that jets accelerated from the inner disc region provide a prompt tracer of the angular momentum of gas at large radii in the disc. Longer timescales are predicted for low luminosity systems, depending on the degree of anisotropy in the disc's hydrodynamic response to shear and warp, and for the final decay of modest warps at large radii in the disc that are potentially observable via VLBI. We discuss the implications of this for the inferred accretion history of those Active Galactic Nuclei whose jet directions appear to be stable over long timescales. The large energy deposition rate at modest disc radii during rapid realignment episodes should make such objects transiently bright at optical and infrared wavelengths. 
We examine the influence of the morphology-density(MD) relation and a wide range of simple models for biased galaxy formation on statistical measures of large scale structure. We contrast the behavior of local biasing models, in which the efficiency of galaxy formation is determined by density, geometry, or velocity dispersion of the local mass distribution, with that of non-local biasing models, in which galaxy formation is modulated coherently over scales larger than the galaxy correlation length. If morphological segregation of galaxies is governed by a local MD relation, then the correlation function of E/S0 galaxies should be steeper and stronger than that of spiral galaxies on small scales, as observed, while on large scales the correlation functions of E/S0 and spiral galaxies should have the same shape but different amplitudes. Similarly, all of our local bias models produce scale-independent amplification of the correlation function and power spectrum in the linear and mildly non-linear regimes; only a non-local biasing mechanism can alter the shape of the power spectrum on large scales. Moments of the biased galaxy distribution retain the hierarchical pattern of the mass moments, but biasing alters the values and scale-dependence of the hierarchical amplitudes S3 and S4. Pair-weighted moments of the galaxy velocity distribution are sensitive to the details of the biasing prescription. The non-linearity of the relation between galaxy density and mass density depends on the biasing prescription and the smoothing scale, and the scatter in this relation is a useful diagnostic of the physical parameters that determine the bias. Although the sensitivity of galaxy clustering statistics to the details of biasing is an obstacle to testing cosmological models, it is an asset for testing galaxy formation theories. 
Assuming Active Galactic Nuclei are powered by accretion onto a massive black holes we suggest that the growth of the central black hole due to the matter accreted over the AGN lifetime causes an evolution of the luminosity and spectrum. We show that the effective temperature of the UV continuum spectrum is likely to be anti-correlated with the black-hole mass and with the accretion-powered luminosity. We estimate the change in the equivalent width of the emission lines due to the growth of the black hole and show that for plausible evolutionary tracks and effective-temperature models the equivalent width is anti-correlated with continuum luminosity thus implying an evolutionary origin to the Baldwin effect. 
The study of stable accretion disc oscillations relevant to black hole candidate (BHC) systems dates back over twenty years. Prior work has focused on both unstable and (potentially) stable disc oscillations. The former has often been suspected of being the underlying cause for the observed broad-band variability in BHC, whereas the latter has had little observational motivation until quite recently. In this article, we review both the observations and theory of (predominantly) stable oscillations in BHC systems. We discuss how variability, both broad-band and quasi-periodic, is characterized in BHC. We review previous claims of low frequency features in BHC, and we discuss the recent observational evidence for stable, high frequency oscillations in so-called `galactic microquasars'. As a potential explanation for the latter observations, we concentrate on a class of theories-- with a rich history of study-- that we call `diskoseismology'. We also discuss other recent alternative theories, namely Lense-Thirring precession of tilted rings near the disc inner edge. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each of these theories, and discuss possible future directions for study. 
We present ASCA gas temperature maps of the nearby merging galaxy clusters Cygnus A, A3667, and A2065. Cygnus A appears to have a particularly simple merger geometry that allows an estimate of the subcluster collision velocity from the observed temperature variations. We estimate it to be ~2000 km/s. Interestingly, this is similar to the free-fall velocity that the two Cygnus A subclusters should have achieved at the observed separation, suggesting that merger has been effective in dissipating the kinetic energy of gas halos into thermal energy, without channeling its major fraction elsewhere (e.g., into turbulence). In A3667, we may be observing a spatial lag between the shock front seen in the X-ray image and the corresponding rise of the electron temperature. A lag of the order of hundreds of kiloparsecs is possible due to the combination of thermal conduction and a finite electron-ion equilibration time. Forthcoming better spatial resolution data will allow a direct measurement of these phenomena using such lags. A2065 has gas density peaks coincident with two central galaxies. A merger with the collision velocity estimated from the temperature map should have swept away such peaks if the subcluster total mass distributions had flat cores in the centers. The fact that the peaks have survived (or quickly reemerged) suggests that the gravitational potential also is strongly peaked. Finally, the observed specific entropy variations in A3667 and Cygnus A indicate that energy injection from a single major merger may be of the order of the full thermal energy of the gas. We hope that these order of magnitude estimates will encourage further work on hydrodynamic simulations, as well as more quantitative representation of the simulation results. 
The evolution of young compact star clusters is studied using N-body simulations in which both stellar evolution and physical collisions between stars are taken into account. The initial conditions are chosen to represent R136, a compact star cluster in the 30 Doradus region of the Large Magellanic Cloud. The present runs do not include the effects of primordial binaries. We find that physical collisions between stars in these models are frequent, and that the evolution of the most massive stars and the dynamical evolution of the cluster are closely coupled. In all cases, a single star grows steadily in mass through mergers with other stars, forming a very massive (>100 Msun) star in less than 3-4 Myr. The growth rate of this runaway merger is much larger than estimates based on simple cross-section arguments, mainly because the star is typically found in the core and tends to form binaries with other massive stars there. The runaway is ``rejuvenated'' by each new collision, and its lifetime is extended considerably as a consequence. Observationally, such a star will appear in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram as a blue straggler. When the runaway forms a black hole, the binary in which it is found is usually dissociated. 
In this paper we address two points concerning the Sachs-Wolfe effect: (i) the gauge independence of the observable temperature anisotropy, and (ii) a gauge-invariant expression of the effect considering the most general situation of hydrodynamic perturbations. The first result follows because the gauge transformation of the temperature fluctuation at the observation event only contributes to the isotropic temperature change which, in practice, is absorbed into the definition of the background temperature. Thus, we proceed without fixing the gauge condition, and express the Sachs-Wolfe effect using the gauge-invariant variables. 
We present preliminary results of a radial-velocity search for companions to a volume limited sample of M dwarfs. Typical accuracy range between 10m/s for the brighter stars and 70m/s at our limiting magnitude. We complement the radial velocity monitoring with adaptive optics imaging to identify close visual companions in a larger volume-limited sample. For stellar companions the two techniques together cover the full separation range, to beyond the limiting distance of the sample. We will therefore eventually obtain a statistically meaningful inventory of the stellar multiplicity of nearby M-dwarf systems. We also have useful sensitivity to giant planets, as illustrated by our recent detection of a planetary companion to Gl 876.   After 2.5 years, we have discovered 12 previously unknown components in this 127 stars sample. 7 of these are actually beyond our 9 pc limit, and were included on the basis of photometric parallaxes which were biased-down by the unrecognized companion. The remaining 5 are true additions to the 9 pc inventory. More are certainly forthcoming, given our present selection bias towards short periods and relatively massive companions. We have derived orbital elements for 7 of the new systems, and for some previously known binaries. One system is a Post-Common-Envelope WD+M binary. Some of the new binaries have excellent prospects for an accurate mass determination over the next few years. Preliminary masses have accuracies of 2% at 0.4-0.6 \Msol and 10% at 0.1 \Msol. 
This is the third paper in a series which combines N-body simulations and semi-analytic modelling to provide a fully spatially resolved simulation of the galaxy formation and clustering processes. Here we extract mock redshift surveys from our simulations: a Cold Dark Matter model with either Omega_0=1 (tauCDM) or Omega_0=0.3 and Lambda=0.7 (LambdaCDM). We compare the mock catalogues with the northern region (CfA2N) of the Center for Astrophysics (CfA) Redshift Surveys. We study the properties of galaxy groups and clusters identified using standard observational techniques and we study the relation of these groups to real virialised systems. Most features of CfA2N groups are reproduced quite well by both models with no obvious dependence on Omega_0. Redshift space correlations and pairwise velocities are also similar in the two cosmologies. The luminosity functions predicted by our galaxy formation models depend sensitively on the treatment of star formation and feedback. For the particular choices of Paper I they agree poorly with the CfA survey. To isolate the effect of this discrepancy on our mock redshift surveys, we modify galaxy luminosities in our simulations to reproduce the CfA luminosity function exactly. This adjustment improves agreement with the observed abundance of groups, which depends primarily on the galaxy luminosity density, but other statistics, connected more closely with the underlying mass distribution, remain unaffected. Regardless of the luminosity function adopted, modest differences with observation remain. These can be attributed to the presence of the ``Great Wall'' in the CfA2N. It is unclear whether the greater coherence of the real structure is a result of cosmic variance, given the relatively small region studied, or reflects a physical deficiency of the models. 
We discuss some 3D numerical simulations of accretion discs using the SPH method and a polytropic equation of state. We show that discs exist even for as large value of the polytropic index as 1.2, and that these discs are always in hydrostatic balance. We also show that even without any inflow, spiral shocks appear in the discs. 
We present a modified description of advection-dominated accretion flows (ADAF) with a geometrical viscosity. A simplified treatment of the dynamics of the flow in the inner relativistic part is suggested and results are compared with the galactic center source Sgr A*. 
Based on observations obtained with the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory - SOHO joint observing program for velocity fields in sunspot regions, we have detected 3 min transition region umbral oscillations in NOAA 8156. Simultaneous recordings of O V $\lambda$629 and N V $\lambda$1238, $\lambda$1242 with the SUMER instrument give the spatial distribution of power in the 3 min oscillations, both in intensity and line-of-sight velocity. Comparing loci with the same phase we find that the entire umbral transition region oscillates. The observed maxima in peak line intensity are nearly in phase with the maxima in velocity directed towards the observer. We discuss the suggestion that the waves are upward propagating acoustic waves. 
Recent work on the mass distribution in spiral galaxies, using mainly HI observations, is reviewed. The principal problem is still to determine to what extent the dark matter is important in the inner parts of a galaxy, or in other words, how dominant is the self-gravitation of the disc. Studies of the shapes of rotation curves show that in detail there is sufficient individuality in spiral galaxies to prohibit the construction of ``Universal Rotation Curves''. A detailed account is given of the method of Athanassoula et al. (1987), where swing amplifier criteria are applied to set a range in the mass-to-light ratio of the disc. To restrict this range further, other methods might be useful. For a number of bright spirals the rotation curve drops just outside the optical image, but this feature by itself cannot constrain unambiguously the mass models. The use of velocity dispersions seems a promising way, though the observational problems are hard. Within the uncertainties, discs can be close to ``maximum'', even though a range of values cannot be excluded. 
Disc galaxies can be substantially modified by close encounters and mergers, since their discs are very responsive components. Close interactions can be held responsible for the formation of bridges and tails, as well as for the formation of some bars, asymmetries and grand design spirals. Bound clumps can form in the tails, due to self-gravity, and could evolve to dwarf galaxies. Off-centerings and asymmetries in the central parts of barred galaxies can be made by off-centered and/or oblique impacts of sufficiently massive and compact companions. Similar impacts, but preferably centered, on non-barred galaxies can form ring galaxies. Companions on initially near-circular orbits can also cause changes to the target disc as they spiral gradually inwards. Low density companions are disrupted before reaching the center of the target and their debris form a thick disc. On the other hand most of the mass of the high density companions reaches the center, where it may form a bulge, thus entailing evolution along the Hubble sequence. Such companions thicken and expand the target disc and may also destroy bars in it. If their initial orbital plane is at an angle to the plane of the disc of the target, they can cause the latter to tilt substantially, depending on their mass and initial inclination. 
In these notes I will briefly summarize our knowledge about the dark matter problem, and emphasize the corresponding dynamical aspects. This covers a wide area of research, so I have been selective, and have concentrated on the subject of dark matter in nearby galaxies, in particular spirals. 
The outbursts of WZ Sge stars (or TOADs), are compared to those seen in the (soft) X-ray transients. Both types of outbursts exhibit strong similarities: large amplitudes, long recurrence times, occurrence of superhumps, and of rebrightenings or reflares at the end or just after the main outburst. This suggests that the same kind of mechanism is at work to produce these outbursts. I also briefly discuss their differences and whether superoutbursts may exist among the very long (>month) outbursts in U Gem stars. 
The nature of the UV-Optical continuum in Seyfert 2 galaxies is a matter of current debate, fundamental to which is the issue of characterizing and quantifying the stellar population contribution to the nuclear spectra. Using high S/N long-slit spectroscopy of a sample of 20 Seyfert 2 galaxies, we have applied a novel approach to investigate the nuclear stellar population in these galaxies. Our main results are: (1) the stellar populations in Seyfert 2 galaxies are varied, and in most cases cannot be adequately represented by an elliptical galaxy template, as done in previous works; (2) the central kpc of most Seyfert 2's contain substantially larger proportions of 100 Myr stars than either elliptical galaxies or normal spirals of the same Hubble type. One important consequence of our findings is that the controversial nature of the so called ``second'' featureless continuum (FC2) in Seyfert 2's is most likely a result of inadequate evaluation of the stellar population. 
We discuss the ``angular size - redshift'' relation for compact radio sources distributed over a wide range of redshifts 0.01 < z < 4.73. Our study is based on a sample of 330 5 GHz VLBI contour maps taken from the literature. Unlike extended source samples, the ``angular size - redshift'' relation for compact radio sources appears consistent with the predictions of standard Friedmann world models with q_o ~ 0.5 without the need to consider evolutionary or selection effects due to a ``linear size -- luminosity'' dependence. By confining our analysis to sources having a spectral index, -0.38 < alpha < 0.18, and a total radio luminosity greater than 10^{26} W/Hz, we are able to restrict the dispersion in the ``angular size -- redshift'' relation. The best fitting regression analysis in the framework of the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker model gives the value of the deceleration parameter q_o = 0.21 +- 0.30 if there are no evolutionary or selection effects due to a ``linear size -- luminosity'', ``linear size -- redshift'' or ``linear size -- spectral index'' dependence. 
One of the external fields that influences the population of globular clusters is that due to galactic bulges. In extreme situations, perigalactic distances $r_p \le 100$ pc, globular clusters could suffer total disruption in a single passage. A more common scenario is that for cluster orbits with $r_p \ge 200$ pc. We investigate the effects of tidal forces from a bulge on the shape of globular clusters for this type of encounters. We find distortions characterized by ``twisting isophotes'' and consider the potential for observability of this effect. In the Milky Way, a typical globular cluster must pass within several hundred pc of the center to experience substantial distortion, and it is possible that this has happened recently to one or two present day clusters. We estimate that this distortion could be observed even for globulars in dense fields toward the bulge. In more extreme environments such as giant ellipticals or merger products with newly formed globulars, this effect could be more common, extending out to orbits that pass within 1 kpc of the bulge center. This would lead to a substantial shift in the eccentricity distribution of globulars in those galaxies. 
1) Rotation Curves and M/L Evolution for Galaxies to z=0.4, (Bershady, Haynes, Giovanelli, & Andersen)   2) Mass Estimates of Starbursting Galaxies: Line Widths versus Near-IR Luminosities (Jangren, Bershady, & Gronwall)   3) Galaxy Kinematics with Integral Field Spectroscopy (Andersen, Bershady) 
Deflection of light by gravity was predicted by General Relativity and observationaly confirmed in 1919. In the following decades various aspects of the gravitational lens effect were explored theoretically, among them the possibility of multiple or ring-like images of background sources, the use of lensing as a gravitational telescope on very faint and distant objects, and the possibility to determine Hubble's constant with lensing. Only relatively recently gravitational lensing became an observational science after the discovery of the first doubly imaged quasar in 1979. Today lensing is a booming part of astrophysics.   In addition to multiply-imaged quasars, a number of other aspects of lensing have been discovered since, e.g. giant luminous arcs, quasar microlensing, Einstein rings, galactic microlensing events, arclets, or weak gravitational lensing. By now literally hundreds of individual gravitational lens phenomena are known.   Although still in its childhood, lensing has established itself as a very useful astrophysical tool with some remarkable successes. It has contributed significant new results in areas as different as the cosmological distance scale, the large scale matter distribution in the universe, mass and mass distribution of galaxy clusters, physics of quasars, dark matter in galaxy halos, or galaxy structure. 
A smooth unclustered dark matter component with negative presure could reconcile a flat universe with the many observations that find a density in ordinary, clustered matter well below the critical density and also explain the recent high redshift supernova data suggesting that the expansion of the universe is now accelerating. For a perfect fluid negative presure leads to instabilities that are most severe on the shortest scales. However, if instead the dark matter is a solid, with an elastic resistance to pure shear deformations, an equation of state with negative presure can avoid these short wavelength instabilities. Such a solid may arise as the result of different kinds of microphysics. Two possible candidates for a solid dark matter component are a frustrated network of non-Abelian cosmic strings or a frustrated network of domain walls. If these networks settle down to an equilibrium configuration that gets carried along and stretched by the Hubble flow, equations of state result with $w=-1/3$ and $w=-2/3,$ respectively. One expects the sound speeds for the solid dark matter component to comprise an appreciable fraction of the speed of light. Therefore, the solid dark matter does not cluster, expect on the very largest scales, accessible only through observing the large-angle CMB anisotropy. In this paper we develop a generally-covariant, continuum description for the dynamics of a solid dark matter component. We derive the evolution equations for the cosmological perturbations in a flat universe with CDM+(solid) and compute the resulting large-angle CMB anisotropy. The formalism presented here applies to any generalized dark matter with negative pressure and a non-dissipative resistance to shear. 
We have detected the host galaxies of 16 nearby, radio-quiet quasars using images obtained with the Near-Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS). We confirm that these luminous quasars tend to live in luminous, early-type host galaxies, and we use the host-galaxy magnitudes to refine the luminosity/host-mass limit inferred from ground-based studies. If quasars obey the relation $M_{black hole}/M_{spheroid}\sim0.006$ found for massive dark objects in nonactive galaxies, then our analysis implies that they radiate at up to $\sim20%$ of the Eddington rate. An analogous analysis for ultraluminous infrared galaxies shows them to accrete at up to similar Eddington fractions, consistent with the hypothesis that some of them are powered by embedded quasars. 
We present Interplanetary Network localization information for 147 gamma-ray bursts observed by the Burst and Transient Source Experiment between the end of the 3rd BATSE catalog and the end of the 4th BATSE catalog, obtained by analyzing the arrival times of these bursts at the Ulysses and Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory (CGRO) spacecraft. For any given burst observed by these two spacecraft, arrival time analysis (or "triangulation") results in an annulus of possible arrival directions whose half-width varies between 7 arcseconds and 2.3 degrees, depending on the intensity and time history of the burst, and the distance of the Ulysses spacecraft from Earth. This annulus generally intersects the BATSE error circle, resulting in an average reduction of the error box area of a factor of 25. 
Measurements of the cosmic ray pbar/p ratio are compared to predictions from an inhomogeneous disk-diffusion model of pbar production and propagation within the Galaxy, combined with a calculation of the modulation of the interstellar cosmic ray spectra as the particles propagate through the heliosphere to the Earth. The predictions agree with the observed pbar/p spectrum. Adding a finite pbar lifetime to the model, we obtain the limit tau_pbar > 0.8 Myr (90 % C.L.). 
Despite direct observations favoring a low mass density, a critical density universe with a neutrino component of dark matter provides the best existing model to explain the observed structure of the universe over more than three orders of magnitude in distance scale. In principle this hot dark matter could consist of one, two, or three species of active neutrinos. If all present indications for neutrino mass are correct, however, only the two-species (muon neutrino and tau neutrino) possibility works. This requires the existence of at least one light sterile neutrino to explain the solar electron neutrino deficit via nu(e)->nu(s), leaving nu(mu)->nu(tau) as the explanation for the anomalous nu(mu)/nu(e) ratio produced by atmospheric neutrinos, and having the LSND experiment demonstrating via anti-nu(mu)-> anti-nu(e) the mass difference between the light nu(e)-nu(s) pair and the heavier nu(mu)-nu(tau) pair required for dark matter. Other experiments do not conflict with the LSND results when all the experiments are analyzed in the same way, and when analyzed conservatively the LSND data is quite compatible with the mass difference needed for dark matter. Further support for this mass pattern is provided by the need for a sterile neutrino to rescue heavy-element nucleosynthesis in supernovae, and it could even aid the concordance in light element abundances from the early universe. 
We have obtained high resolution (FWHM = 4.4 km/s) Keck spectra of images A and C of the gravitationally lensed QSO Q1422+231. The images are separated by 1.3" on the sky. In an absorption system at z = 3.538 gas column density variations by an order of magnitude and velocity shear on the order of 10 km/s are observed in the low ionization (SiII, CII) lines. The transverse separation between the lines of sight in the absorbing cloud is estimated to be as small as 26 parsec, corresponding to an effective angular resolution of 4 milliarcseconds as seen from the Earth. In contrast, the high ionization (CIV) gas appears mostly featureless and thus must be considerably more extended. The abundances of the elements carbon, silicon and oxygen appear to be close to the solar values. The observation provides the first spatially and kinematically resolved probe of the interstellar medium at high redshift on scales small enough to be influenced by individual stars or star clusters. The mass associated with the low ionization "cloudlets" is likely to be less than about 3000 M_solar and possibly less than 1 M_solar. The velocity shear seen across the lines of sight is too large to be caused by galactic bulk motion, so the velocity field of the low ionization gas must be strongly influenced by small scale local gasdynamics. While it cannot presently be excluded that the disturbances of the gas are due to high velocity outflows from the background QSO, the observed velocity and density structure of the z=3.538 system is consistent with our line of sight running through an expanding shell of gas, possibly a supernova bubble or a stellar wind. 
We describe a sample of thirteen bright (18.5<Bj<20.1) compact galaxies at low redshift (0.05<z<0.21) behind the Fornax Cluster. These galaxies are unresolved on UK Schmidt sky survey plates, so would be missing from most galaxy catalogs compiled from this material. The objects were found during initial observations of The Fornax Spectroscopic Survey. This project is using the Two-degree Field spectrograph on the Anglo-Australian Telescope to obtain spectra for a complete sample of all 14000 objects, stellar and non-stellar, with 16.5<Bj<19.7, in a 12 square degree area centered on the Fornax cluster of galaxies. The surface density of compact galaxies with magnitudes 16.5<Bj<19.7 is 7+/-3 /sq.deg., representing 2.8+/-1.6% of all local (z<0.2) galaxies to this limit. There are 12+/-3 /sq.deg. with 16.5<Bj<20.2. They are luminous (-21.5<Mb<-18.0, for H0=50 km/s/mpc) and most have strong emission lines (H alpha equivalent widths of 40-200 A) and small sizes typical of luminous HII galaxies and compact narrow emission line galaxies. Four out of thirteen have red colors and early-type spectra, so are unlikely to have been detected in any previous surveys. 
The close relation between ground-based TeV observations and satellite borne $\gamma$-ray measurements has been important for the understanding of blazars. The observations which involve the TeV component in blazar studies are reviewed. 
Our current knowledge of M31's dwarf spheroidal companions is reviewed. Two topics of recent interest constitute the bulk of this review. First, color-magnitude diagrams reaching below the horizontal branch have been constructed for two M31 dwarf spheroidals based on images from HST/WFPC2. The horizontal branches are predominantly red in both galaxies, redder than expected for their metallicity based on Galactic globular clusters. Thus, the second parameter effect is seen in the M31 halo. Second, recent surveys have revealed three new dwarf spheroidal companions to M31. Thus, dwarf spheroidal galaxies are not as rare around M31 as previously thought and as a result, some properties of the M31 companion system have changed. 
We present hard X-ray observations of the nearby radio galaxy M87 and the core of the Virgo cluster using the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer. These are the first hard X-ray observations of M87 not affected by contamination from the nearby Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC4388. Thermal emission from Virgo's intracluster medium is clearly detected and has a spectrum indicative of kT=2.5keV plasma with approximately 25% cosmic abundances. No non-thermal (power-law) emission from M87 is detected in the hard X-ray band, with fluctuations in the Cosmic X-ray Background being the limiting factor. Combining with ROSAT data, we infer that the X-ray spectrum of the M87 core and jet must be steep (Gamma_core>1.90$ and Gamma_jet>1.75), and we discuss the implications of this result. In particular, these results are consistent with M87 being a mis-aligned BL-Lac object. 
We present ASCA X-ray observations of a sample of five groups selected from a cross-correlation of the ROSAT All-Sky Survey with the White et al. optical catalog of groups. These X-ray bright groups significantly increase the number of known systems with temperatures between 2 and 3 keV. They have element abundances of roughly 0.3 times solar that are typical of clusters, but their favored ratio of Si/Fe abundance is lower than the cluster value. Combining the ASCA results with ROSAT imaging data, we calculate total masses of a few to several times 10^13 M_sun, gas mass fractions of ~10%, and baryonic mass fractions of at least 15-20% within a radius of 0.5 Mpc. Upper limits for the ratios of gas to galaxy mass and of the iron mass to galaxy luminosity overlap with the range observed in rich clusters and extend to lower values, but not to such low values as seen in much poorer groups. These results support the idea that groups, unlike clusters, are subject to the loss of their primordial and processed gas, and show that this transition occurs at the mass scale of the 2-3 keV groups. A discussion of ASCA calibration issues and a comparison of ROSAT and ASCA temperatures are included in an Appendix. 
Although the existence of a faint background of starlight in the core of the Coma cluster has been well established (1,2), its origin is uncertain. This vast sea of stars could have formed outside the galaxies, using gas left over from the time of the cluster's birth. Alternatively, it might be the accumulated debris generated by interactions between the galaxies over the lifetime of the cluster (3). Here we report the discovery of three large, low surface brightness features in the Coma cluster; the most spectacular is a plume-like structure, 130 kpc long, in the cluster's heart. These structures will disperse over the next one to two billion years, thereby enhancing the general background light. If this epoch is typical, we argue that a significant fraction -- perhaps even most -- of the intracluster light results from a steady accumulation of tidal debris generated during galaxy-galaxy and galaxy-cluster interactions. 
Observations of the stellar content of the bulge of the Milky Way can provide critical guidelines for the interpretation of observations of distant galaxies, in particular for understanding their stellar content and evolution. In this brief overview I will first highlight some recent work directed towards measuring the history of star formation and the chemical composition of the central few parsecs of the Galaxy. These observations point to an episodic history of star formation in the central region with several bursts having occurred over the past few 100 Myr (e.g. Blum et al. 1996b). High resolution spectroscopic observations by Ram\'{\i}rez et al. (1998) of luminous M stars in this region yield a near solar value for [Fe/H] from direct measurements of iron lines. Then I will present some results from an ongoing program by my colleagues and myself the objective of which is the delineation of the star formation and chemical enrichment histories of the central 100 parsecs of the Galaxy, the ``inner bulge''. From new photometric data we have concluded that there is a small increase in mean [Fe/H] from Baade's Window to the Galactic Center and deduce a near solar value for stars in the central region. For radial distances greater than 1$^{\circ}$ from the Galactic Center we fail to find a measurable population of stars that are significantly younger than those in Baade's Window. Within 1$^{\circ}$ we find a number of luminous M giants that most likely are the result of a star formation episode not more than one or two Gyr ago. 
The evolutionary scenario of the neutron star magnetic field is examined assuming a spindown-induced expulsion of magnetic flux originally confined to the core, in which case the expelled flux undergoes ohmic decay. The nature of field evolution, for accreting neutron stars, is investigated incorporating the crustal microphysics and material movement due to accretion. This scenario may explain the observed field strengths of neutron stars but only if the crustal lattice contains a large amount of impurity which is in direct contrast to the models that assume an original crustal field. 
We present spectral and timing analysis of all the data collected by the Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer for the BL Lac object Mrk 421 from 1994 to 1997. During these years Mrk 421 has been observed by EUVE 4 times with the DS/Spectrograph and 2 times with the imaging telescopes for a total of ~1.4 millions seconds. The total EUVE light curve seems to be smoothly varying on the long time-scale while on a shorter time-scale there is evidence of an EUVE flare correlated to the 1995 TeV flare. We analysed the three spectral data set in an homogenous way using the proper off-axis calibrations and checked for the existence of absorption features around ~70 A (Kartje et al.,97,ApJ,474,630). We also show the first power spectrum analysis of the Mrk 421 EUVE lightcurves and a comparison with the predictions by theoretical models (e.g. Celotti et al.,1991,ApJ,377,403). 
We present in this paper a simple method to obtain informations on galaxy models parameters using the measured value of the microlensing optical depth. Assuming a 100 percent MACHO's dark halo, we ask the predicted optical depth for a given model to be the same as the observed one, in a given direction. Writing the optical depth in terms of the given halo model parameters and inverting this relation with respect to one of them, it is possible to get information on it, fixing under reasonable hypothesis the other parameters. This is what we call the "inverse problem in microlensing. We apply this technique to the class of power-law models with flat rotation curves, determining the range for the core radius R_c compatible with the constraints on the halo flattening q and the measures of the optical depth towards LMC. Next, we apply the same method to a simple triaxial model, evaluating the axial ratios. 
The class of B[e] supergiants is characterized by a two-component stellar wind consisting of a normal hot star wind in the polar zone and a slow and dense disk-like wind in the equatorial region. The properties of the disk wind are discussed using satellite UV spectra of stars seen edge-on, i.e. through the equatorial disk. These observations show that the disk winds are extremely slow, 50-90 km/s, i.e. a factor of about 10 slower than expected from the spectral types. Optical emission lines provide a further means to study the disk wind. This is discussed for line profiles of forbidden lines formed in the disk. 
FIRBACK is a deep survey conducted with the ISOPHOT instrument aboard the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) at an effective wavelength of 175 $\mu$m. We present here results we have obtained on the first field, the so-called Marano1 which covers around 0.25 square degree. We find that the source density for objects with a flux above 200 mJy exceeds the counts expected for sources found in the IRAS deep surveys with a similar flux by about an order of magnitude. Such an excess was expected on the basis of the high far infrared background detected with the FIRAS and DIRBE instruments aboard the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE). These sources are likely to be redshifted infrared galaxies. The steep number counts indicate strong cosmological evolution in this population. The detected sources account for only 10 % of the cosmic IR background. An extrapolation of the counts down to about 10 mJy would be needeed to account for the whole background at this wavelength. 
We use a model of galaxy disk formation to explore the metallicities, dust content, and neutral-gas mass density of damped Lyman-$\alpha$ (D\lya) absorbers. We find that the [Zn/H] abundance measurements of D\lya systems now available can be reproduced either by a population of low surface brightness (LSB) galaxies forming at redshifts $z > 3$, whose chemical contents evolve slowly with time and whose star formation rates are described by continuous bursts, or by high surface brightness (HSB) galaxies which form continuously over an interval of $z \sim 0.5-3$ (and no higher). Although, in reality, a mixture of galaxy types may be responsible for low-z D\lya systems, our models predict that HSB galaxies form more dust, more rapidly, than LSB galaxies, and that HSB galaxies may therefore obscure background QSOs and not give rise to D\lya lines, as suggested by other researchers. Significantly, we find that the rate at which HSB disks consume neutral gas is too fast to explain the observed evolution in the neutral gas mass density with redshift, and that the consumption of hydrogen by LSB galaxies better fits the data. This further suggests that LSB disks may dominate the D\lya population at high-redshift. 
After a short review of the quasar problem and what we can hope to learn from their emission line spectra, I discuss the current body of knowledge concerning quasar emission lines and their relationships to the local and ionizing continua. I propose a hypothesis that the Baldwin effect is due to a characteristic relationship between the continuum spectral energy distribution, the gas metallicity (Z), and the quasar luminosity. I suggest that such a relationship might arise naturally from a scenario involving massive galaxy formation and evolution driving the birth and evolution of the quasar central engines in terms of four fundamental parameters: M_bh, Mdot Mdot/M_bh, and Z. 
A new component of the Universe which leads to an accelerated cosmic expansion is found from the measurements of distances to high-redshift type Ia supernovae. We describe the method and the results obtained from the observations of distant supernovae. The dependence on the understanding of the local type Ia supernovae is stressed. The lack of a good understanding of the stellar evolution leading to the explosion of the white dwarf, the exact explosion physics and the current difficulties in calculating the emission from the ejecta limit the theoretical support. Despite the current ignorance of some of the basic physics of the explosions, the cosmological result is robust. The empirical relations seem to hold for the distant supernovae the same way as for the local ones and the spectral appearance is identical. The distances to the high-redshift supernovae are larger than expected in a freely coasting, i.e. empty, Universe. A positive cosmological constant is inferred from these measurements. 
I present a brief review about our ideas concerning the origin and nature of the broad line emitting gas. This is one of the outstanding problems in quasar research. I suggest the establishment of a central data base of high quality quasar spectra as a means to realize an understanding of quasars. 
We present visible and near IR images of the compact HII region Sh 152. Some of these images reveal the presence of Extended Red Emission (ERE) around 698 nm and emission from Unidentified Infra Red Bands (UIRBs) at 3.3 and 6.2 micron. Other images show the near infrared (7-12 micron) continuous emission of the nebula. The ERE emission is found to coincide with the ionized region and significantly differ from the UIRBs location. Also some evidence is found in favor of grains as carriers for ERE. 
EROS-II is a second generation microlensing experiment. The experimental setup, in operation at the European Southern Observatory (ESO) at La Silla (Chile) since mid-1996 is briefly described together with its scientific objectives. The first results from our microlensing searches towards the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) and the Galactic Plane are presented. We also give some results from a dedicated campaign which took place in 96-97, and aimed at studying magellanic Cepheids systematically. We conclude by an overview of the semi-automated supernov\ae search. 
We present initial results of a spectroscopic study of the Pistol and of the cocoon stars in the Quintuplet Cluster. From ISOCAM CVF 5--17 micron spectroscopy of the field of the Pistol Star, we have discovered a nearly spherical shell of hot dust surrounding this star, a probable LBV. This shell is most prominent at lambda > 12 micron, and its morphology clearly indicates that the shell is stellar ejecta. Emission line images show that most of the ionised material is along the northern border of this shell, and its morphology is very similar to that of the Pistol HII region (Yusef-Zadeh & Morris, 1987, AJ, 94, 1178). We thus confirm that the ionisation comes from very hot stars in the core of the Quintuplet Cluster. An SWS spectrum of the Pistol Nebula indicates a harder ionising radiation than could be provided by the Pistol Star, but which is consistent with ionisation from Wolf-Rayet stars in the Quintuplet Cluster. The CVF 5--17 micron spectra of the cocoon stars in the Quintuplet do not show any emission feature that could help elucidate their nature. 
A toy model of a disk undergoing steady state accretion onto a black hole is presented. The disk is in a hydrostatic equilibrium for all radii r > r_{in}, with the inner disk radius located between the marginally stable and marginally bound orbits: r_{ms} > r_{in} > r_{mb}. Matter flows from the disk through a narrow cusp at r_{ms} and falls freely into the black hole, carrying with it no thermal energy. At radii larger than r_{out} the disk is assumed to radiate away all locally generated heat, and therefore the disk is geometrically thin for r > r_{out}. We assume that no heat generated in the inner disk, with r_{out} > r > r_{in} can be radiated away, i.e. the disk is 100% advective, and it becomes geometrically thick in this range of radii. All enthalpy of the thick disk is used up to press the inner disk radius towards the marginally bound orbit, and to lower the efficiency of conversion of accreted mass into radiation generated only for r > r_{out}, by assumption.   Conservation laws of mass, angular momentum and energy make it possible to calculate the inner thick disk radius r_{in} for any specified value of its outer radius r_{out}. As the nature of disk viscosity is not known there is some freedom in choosing the shape of the thick disk, subject to several general conditions, which include the hydrostatic equilibrium everywhere for r > r_{in}. The main purpose of this toy model is to emphasize the effect the disk thickness has on lowering the energetic efficiency of a black hole accretion. 
Decompositions of the rotation curves of NGC2613, 3198, 6505, and 7184 are analysed. For these galaxies the radial velocity dispersions of the stars have been measured and their morphology is clearly discernible. If the parameters of the decompositions are chosen according to the `maximum' disk hypothesis, the Toomre Q stability parameter is systematically less than one and the multiplicities of the spiral arms as expected from density wave theory are inconsitent with the observed morphologies of the galaxies. The apparent Q<1 instability, in particular, is a strong argument against the `maximum' disk hypothesis. 
We discuss the ratio of ortho- to para-H2 in photodissociation regions (PDRs). We draw attention to an apparent confusion in the literature between the ortho-to-para ratio of molecules in FUV-pumped vibrationally excited states, and the H2 ortho-to-para abundance ratio. These ratios are not the same because the process of FUV-pumping of fluorescent H2 emission in PDRs occurs via optically thick absorption lines. Thus, gas with an equilibrium ratio of ortho- to para-H2 equal to 3 will yield FUV-pumped vibrationally excited ortho-to-para ratios smaller than 3, because the ortho-H2 pumping rates are preferentially reduced by optical depth effects. Indeed, if the ortho and para pumping lines are on the ``square root'' part of the curve-of-growth, then the expected ratio of ortho and para vibrational line strengths is the square root of 3, ~ 1.7, close to the typically observed value. Thus, contrary to what has sometimes been stated in the literature, most previous measurements of the ratio of ortho- to para-H2 in vibrationally excited states are entirely consistent with a total ortho-to-para ratio of 3, the equilibrium value for temperatures greater than 200 K. We present an analysis and several detailed models which illustrate the relationship between the total ratios of ortho- to para-H2 and the vibrationally excited ortho-to-para ratios in PDRs. Recent Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) measurements of pure rotational and vibrational H2 emissions from the PDR in the star-forming region S140 provide strong observational support for our conclusions. 
We summarize previous VLBI observations of Sgr A* at millimeter wavelengths and present new results from VLBI observations at 86 and at 215 GHz. At 86 GHz the measured closure phase is close to zero, consistent with a point-like or symmetric structure of 190 +/- 30 micro-arcsec size. At 215 GHz we have detected Sgr A* with a signal-to-noise ratio of 6. This yields a tentative size estimate of 50 < theta < 190 micro-arcsec, which is larger than the scattering size of 20 micro-arcsec at this frequency. The intrinsic size of Sgr A* thus appears to be a few up to a few ten Schwarzschild radii. 
Results from an HST/multiwavelength campaign on the 1996 outburst of GRO J1655-40 are reported. We find evidence for an approximately isothermal outer disk in GRO J1655-40 during the decline from outburst, possibly indicating the outer disk being maintained in the hot state. HST observations of GRO J0422+32 made 2 years after outburst reveal a sharply peaked optical/near UV spectrum, providing strong evidence for non-thermal emission. 
To anyone who has read a scientific journal or even a newspaper in the last six months, it might appear that cosmic gamma-ray bursts hold no more mysteries: they are cosmological, and possibly the most powerful explosions in the Universe. In fact, however, bursts remain mysterious in many ways. There is no general agreement upon the nature of the event which releases the initial energy. One burst at least appears to strain the energy budget of the merging neutron star model. There is evidence that another recent event may have come from a nearby supernova. Finally, while the number count statistics clearly show a strong deviation from the -3/2 power law expected for a Euclidean, homogeneous distribution, the distributions of some classes of bursts appear to follow a -3/2 power law rather closely. The recent data on bursts is reviewed, some of the mysteries discussed, and future experiments are outlined. 
We discuss the utilization of INTEGRAL as a gamma-ray burst detector in the interplanetary network. IBIS will have an inherent GRB detection and localization capability. However, the SPI anticoincidence shield will also be a sensitive burst detector which, in conjunction with other spacecraft, will make it possible to localize three to four times more bursts than IBIS alone. This capability will be quite unique in the years 2001-2003 when INTEGRAL is operating. 
We have observed V751 Cyg with the ROSAT HRI during its recent optical low state and clearly detect it at a count rate of 0.015 cts/s. The X-ray intensity is a factor of ~20 higher than the upper limit obtained with the ROSAT PSPC during the optical high state. Spectral investigations suggest a very soft X-ray spectrum. We investigate archival IUE data of V751 Cyg and derive a distance of V751 Cyg of d~500 pc based on the extinction estimate of E(B-V)=0.25+-0.05. This implies that the X-ray emission is very luminous, on the order of 10^34-10^36 erg/s. The spectrum during the optical low-state is characterized by a very blue continuum and the presence of strong emission lines of the Balmer series and HeI. Also, HeII 4686 A is clearly detected. We establish that V751 Cyg is a transient supersoft X-ray source and speculate that other VY Scl stars may also be of similar type. 
In this chapter I give an overview of shock acceleration, including a discussion of the maximum energies possible and the shape of the spectrum near cut-off, interactions of high energy cosmic rays with, and propagation through, the background radiation, and the resulting electron-photon cascade. Possible sources of the highest energy cosmic rays are discussed including active galaxies, gamma ray bursts and topological defects. I argue that while the origin of the highest energy cosmic rays is still uncertain, it is not necessary to invoke exotic models such as emission by topological defects to explain the existing data. It seems likely that shock acceleration at Fanaroff-Riley Class II radio galaxies can account for the existing data. However, new cosmic ray data, as well as better estimates of the extragalactic radiation fields and magnetic fields will be necessary before we will be certain of the origin of the highest energy particles occurring in nature. 
We observed the pair of radio sources 1150+812 and 1803+784 in November 1993 with a VLBI array, simultaneously recording at 8.4 and 2.3 GHz. We determined the angular separation between the two sources with submilliarcsecond accuracy by using differential techniques. This result demonstrates the feasibility of high precision differential astrometry for radio sources separated in the sky by almost 15 degrees, and opens the avenue to its application to larger samples of radio sources. 
Bulges, often identified with the spheroidal component of a galaxy, have a complex pedigree. Massive bulges are generally red and old, but lower mass bulges have broader dispersions in color that may be correlated with disk colors. This suggests different formation scenarios. I will review possible formation sequences for bulges, describe the various signatures that distinguish these scenarios, and discuss implications for the high redshift universe. 
The accretion induced collapse (AIC) of a white dwarf into a neutron star has been invoked to explain gamma-ray bursts, Type Ia supernovae, and a number of problematic neutron star populations and specific binary systems. The ejecta from this collapse has also been claimed as a source of r-process nucleosynthesis. So far, most AIC studies have focussed on determining the event rates from binary evolution models and less attention has been directed toward understanding the collapse itself. However, the collapse of a white dwarf into a neutron star is followed by the ejection of rare neutron-rich isotopes. The observed abundance of these chemical elements may set a more reliable limit on the rate at which AICs have taken place over the history of the galaxy.   In this paper, we present a thorough study of the collapse of a massive white dwarf in 1- and 2-dimensions and determine the amount and composition of the ejected material. We discuss the importance of the input physics (equation of state, neutrino transport, rotation) in determining these quantities. These simulations affirm that AICs are too baryon rich to produce gamm-ray bursts and do not eject enough nickel to explain Type Ia supernovae (with the possible exception of a small subclass of extremely low-luminosity Type Ias). Although nucleosynthesis constraints limit the number of neutron stars formed via AICs to <0.1% of the total galactic neutron star population, AICs remain a viable scenario for forming systems of neutron stars which are difficult to explain with Type II core-collapse supernovae. 
We use a new method of analysis to determine parameters of cosmological gamma-ray bursts (GRBs), assuming that their distribution follows the star-formation history of the universe. Spectral evolution is calculated from an external shock model for fireball/blast wave evolution, and used to evaluate the measured peak flux, duration, and $\nu F_\nu$ peak photon energy for a GRB source occuring at a given redshift and with given values of total energy, baryon-loading and environmental parameters. We then fit model distributions of GRB sources to the observed peak flux, duration and $\nu F_\nu$ peak photon energy distributions. We find that the observed width of the $E_p$ and duration distributions can not be explained by cosmological redshift and time dilation effects. Rather, broad distributions of total blastwave energies and bulk Lorentz factors are necessary to explain the observed distributions simultaneously within the framework of our unifying GRB model. We discuss implications for source parameter distributions and determine a range of burst parameters consistent with the data. 
Three different models have been proposed for LiBeB production by cosmic rays: the CRI model in which the cosmic rays are accelerated out of an ISM of solar composition scaled with metallicity; the CRS model in which cosmic rays with composition similar to that of the current epoch cosmic rays are accelerated out of fresh supernova ejecta; and the LECR model in which a distinct low energy component coexists with the postulated cosmic rays of the CRI model. These models are usually distinguished by their predictions concerning the evolution of the Be and B abundances. Here we emphasize the energetics which favor the CRS model. This model is also favored by observations showing that the bulk (80 to 90%) of all supernovae occur in hot, low density superbubbles, where supernova shocks can accelerate the cosmic rays from supernova ejecta enriched matter. 
Astrophysical objects below the stellar mass limit but well above the mass of Jupiter eluded discovery for nearly three decades after Kumar first proposed their existence, and for two decades after Tarter proposed the name "brown dwarfs." The first unambiguous discoveries of planetary (51 Peg B) and brown dwarf (Gliese 229B) companions occurred about three years ago. Yet while extrasolar planets are now being discovered at a breathtaking rate, brown dwarf companions to ordinary stars are apparently rare; likewise imaging surveys show that GL229B is still unique as a distant companion to a low mass star.   On the other hand, the deep imaging studies of the Pleiades and several imbedded young clusters show that the mass function (ie. of single objects) extends in substantial numbers down to at least 40 Jupiter masses. The high mass / stellar density Orion Nebula Cluster may have relatively fewer low mass objects.   In the field of the solar neighborhood, the infrared sky surveys DENIS and especially 2MASS show that brown dwarfs, certified by the lithium test, exist in significant numbers. These appear to include most of the newly-defined spectroscopic class of L dwarfs. These objects are cooler than, and with different atomic and molecular absorption features than the late M dwarfs. If the first 1% of sky analyzed is not atypical, over a thousand L dwarfs should be detected in the 2MASS survey. 
In this study we compute the structure and evolution of carbon-oxygen DA white dwarfs by means of a detailed and updated evolutionary code. We treat the energy transport by convection within the formalism of the full spectrum turbulence theory, as given by the Canuto, Goldman and Mazzitelli (CGM) model. We explore the effect of various hydrogen layer masses on both the surface gravity and the hydrogen burning. Convective mixing at low luminosities is also considered. One of our main interests in this work has been to study the evolution of ZZ Ceti models, with the aim of comparing the CGM and mixing length theory (MLT) predictions. In this connection, we find that the temperature profile given by the CGM model is markedly different from that of the ML1 and ML2 versions of MLT. We have also computed approximate effective temperatures for the theoretical blue edge of the DA instability strip by using thermal timescale arguments for our evolving models. In this context, we found that the CGM theory leads to blue edges that are cooler than the observed ones. However, because the determination of the atmospheric parameters of ZZ Ceti stars is dependent on the assumed convection description in model atmosphere calculation, observed blue edges computed considering the CGM theory are required in order to perform a sef consistent comparison of our results with observations. Finally, detailed pulsation calculations of ZZ Ceti models considering the CGM convection would be necessary to place the results found in this paper on a firmer basis. 
We construct the simplest solution of the Einstein equations that incorporates a shock-wave into a standard Friedmann-Robertson-Walker metric whose equation of state accounts for the Hubble constant and the microwave background radiation temperature. This produces a new solution of the Einstein equations from which we are able to derive estimates for the shock position at present time. We show that the distance from the shock-wave to the center of the explosion at present time is comparable to the Hubble distance. We are motivated by the idea that the expansion of the universe as measured by the Hubble constant might be accounted for by an event more similar to a classical explosion than by the well-accepted scenario of the Big Bang. 
We have developed a numerical simulation code that treats the transport and acceleration of charged particles crossing an idealized oblique, non-relativistic shock within the framework of pitch angle transport using a finite-difference method. We consider two applications: 1) to study the steady-state acceleration of energetic particles at an oblique shock, and 2) to explain observed precursors of Forbush decreases of galactic cosmic rays before the arrival of an interplanetary shock induced by solar activity. For the former, we find that there is a jump in the particle intensity at the shock, which is stronger for more oblique shocks. Detailed pitch angle distributions are also presented. The simple model of a Forbush decrease explains the key features of observed precursors, an enhanced diurnal anisotropy extending several mean free paths upstream of the shock and a depletion of particles in a narrow loss cone at ~0.1 mean free path from the shock. Such precursors have practical applications for space weather prediction. 
We present infrared photometry and optical and infrared spectroscopy of the recently-discovered, extremely luminous nearby quasar PDS 456. A number of broad emission features are seen in the near-infrared which we are unable to identify. We measure a more accurate redshift from a narrow forbidden emission line and compare the optical-infrared spectrum to that of 3C 273. The close similarity suggests that PDS 456 is a radio-quiet analogue of 3C 273, although radio observations do not support this idea. 
We exploit the fact that General Theory of Relativity (GTR) predicts the existence of compact objects having surface gravitational redshift z_s < =z_c=0.615 when the Equation of State (EOS) has the stringest general constraint that the speed of sound c_s < = 0.57 c. This z_c can be occur if a Neutron Star (NS) has a mass of ~2 M (solar) and radius ~8 Km, as is allowed by most of the existing EOSs. Thus massive spherical stars can indeed collapse to such (more compact) NSs. We have shown that the efficiency for production of electron-positron pairs out of the annihilation of resulting neutrino-antineutrino burst rises dramatically with the value of z_c and can saturate to ~40%. This may explain a gamma ray burst of energy as high as ~5. 10**53 erg. By using the already existing detailed (Newtonian) calculations, it follows that the neutrino heating driven mass loss should be negligible, and the bulk Lorentz factor of the initial fireball could be ~1000. Most of the existing supernova calculations also show that it is extremely difficult to simulate the direct neutrino driven mass loss, and, the shock is not launched if the gravitational field becomes stronger. Since the gravitation potential well of the more compact NS is indded very deep, we do not expect additional baryonic mass ejection. So, without invoking any exotic physics (like strange stars) or overstretching any theory, we may explain most of the luminous GRBs in this simple model. 
We investigate the enrichment of europium, as a representative of r-process elements, in the Galactic halo. In present chemical evolution models, stars are assumed to be formed through shock processes by supernovae (SNe). The enrichment of the interstellar medium is calculated by a one-zone approach. The observed large dispersions in [Eu/Fe] for halo stars, converging with increasing metallicity, can be explained with our models. In addition, the mass range of SNe for the {\it r}-process site is constrained to be either stars of $8-10 M_\odot$ or $\gtrsim 30 M_\odot$. 
Extensive grids of photoionization models have been calculated for single star HII regions and evolving starbursts. We illustrate the predictions for IR fine structure lines which are used to analyse the stellar content, and derive properties such as the age and IMF. The impact of recent ionizing fluxes on the IR lines are shown. First comparisons of our starburst models with IR-diagnostics and the ISO observations of Genzel et al. (1998) are also presented. 
We discuss the main uncertainties affecting estimates of small scale fluctuations due to extragalactic sources in the Planck Surveyor frequency bands. Conservative estimates allow us to confidently conclude that, in the frequency range 100--200 GHz, the contaminating effect of extragalactic sources is well below the expected anisotropy level of the cosmic microwave background (CMB), down to angular scales of at least $\simeq 10'$. Hence, an accurate subtraction of foreground fluctuations is not critical for the determination of the CMB power spectrum up to multipoles $\ell \simeq 1000$. In any case, Planck's wide frequency coverage will allow to carefully control foreground contributions. On the other hand, the all sky surveys at 9 frequencies, spanning the range 30--900 GHz, will be unique in providing complete samples comprising from several hundreds to many thousands of extragalactic sources, selected in an essentially unexplored frequency interval. New classes of sources may be revealed in these data. 
Near infrared images of the Galactic giant HII region W43 reveal a dense stellar cluster at its center. Broad band JHK photometry of the young cluster and K-band spectra of three of its bright stars are presented. The 2 micron spectrum of the brightest star in the cluster is very well matched to the spectra of Wolf-Rayet stars of sub-type WN7. Two other stars are identified as O type giants or supergiants by their NIII and CIV emission. The close spatial clustering of O and the hydrogen WN type stars is analogous to the intense star burst clusters R136 in the Large Magellanic Cloud and NGC3603 in the Galaxy. 
The effect of the magnetic field on the energy loss rate in the direct Urca reactions is studied. The general expression for the neutrino emissivity at arbitrary magnetic field B is derived. The main emphasis is laid on a case, in which the field is not superstrong, and charged reacting particles (e and p) populate many Landau levels. The magnetic field keeps the process operative if Delta k / k_{Fn} < N_{Fp}^{-2/3} (N_{Fp} is the number of the Landau levels populated by protons and Delta k = k_{Fn}-k_{Fp}-k_{Fe}), that is beyond the well-known switch-on limit in the absence of the field, Delta k < 0. Cooling of magnetized neutron stars with strong neutron superfluid in the outer cores and nonsuperfluid inner cores is simulated. The magnetic field near the stellar center speeds up the cooling if the stellar mass M is slightly less than the minimum mass M_c at which the direct Urca reaction becomes allowed for B=0. If B=3x10^{16} G the affected mass range is M_c-M < 0.1M_c, while for B=3x10^{15} G the range is M_c-M < 0.015M_c. This may influence a theoretical interpretation of the observed thermal radiation as illustrated for the Geminga pulsar. The case of superstrong magnetic fields (B>10^{18} G), such that e and p populate only the lowest Landau levels is briefly outlined. 
We have analyzed the properties of the star formation episodes taking place in a sample of Blue Compact and Irregular galaxies by comparing their multiwavelength observational properties with the predictions of evolutionary population synthesis models. This method has allowed us to constrain the age, star formation regime (instantaneous or extended) and Initial Mass Function slope, as well as the shape and strentgh of the interstellar extinction in these regions. 
The dynamics of a viscous accretion disc subject to a slowly varying warp of large amplitude is considered. Attention is restricted to discs in which self-gravitation is negligible, and to the generic case in which the resonant wave propagation found in inviscid Keplerian discs does not occur. The equations of fluid dynamics are derived in a coordinate system that follows the principal warping motion of the disc. They are reduced using asymptotic methods for thin discs, and solved to extract the equation governing the warp. In general, this is a wave equation of parabolic type with non-linear dispersion and diffusion, which describes fully non-linear bending waves. This method generalizes the linear theory of Papaloizou & Pringle (1983) to allow for an arbitrary rotation law, and extends it into the non-linear domain, where it connects with a generalized version of the theory of Pringle (1992). The astrophysical implications of this analysis are discussed briefly. 
More than two hundred classical cepheids were measured by the Hipparcos astrometric satellite, making possible a geometrical calibration of the cepheid distance scale. However, the large average distance of even the nearest cepheids measured by Hipparcos implies trigonometric parallaxes of at most a few mas. Determining unbiased distances and absolute magnitudes from such high relative error parallax data is not a trivial problem.In 1997, Feast & Catchpole announced that Hipparcos cepheid parallaxes indicated a Period-Luminosity scale 0.2 mag brighter than previous calibrations, with important consequences on the whole cosmic distance scale. In the wake of this initial study, several authors have reconsidered the question, and favour fainter calibrations of cepheid luminositites, compatible with pre-Hipparcos values. All authors used equivalent data sets, and the bulk of the difference in the results arises from the statistical treatment of the parallax data. We have attempted to repeat the analyses of all these studies and test them with Monte Carlo simulations and synthetic samples. We conclude that the initial Feast & Catchpole study is sound, and that the subsequent studies are subjected in several different ways to biases involved in the treatment of high relative error parallax data. We consider the source of these biases in some detail. We also propose a reappraisal of the error budget in the final Hipparcos cepheid result, leading to a PL relation -- adapted from Feast & Catchpole -- of M_V=-2.81 (assumed) log P -1.43 +-0.16 (stat) +0-0.03 (syst). We compare this calibration to recent values from cluster cepheids or the surface brightness method, and find that the overall agreement is good within the uncertainties. 
I derive a second-order local relation between the REDSHIFT-space mass density field and the REAL-space velocity field. This relation can be useful for comparisons between the cosmic density and peculiar velocity fields, for a number of reasons. First, relating the real-space velocity directly to the redshift-space density enables one to avoid the Omega-dependent reconstruction of the density field in real space. Secondly, the reconstruction of the three-dimensional velocity field in redshift space, questionable because of its vorticity, is also unnecessary. Finally, a similar relation between the GALAXY density field and the velocity field offers a way to break the Omega-bias degeneracy in density--velocity comparisons, when combined with an additional measurement of the redshift-space galaxy skewness. I derive the latter relation under the assumption of nonlinear but local bias; accounting for stochasticity of bias is left for further study. 
We have selected the seven most well-defined WR ring nebulae in the LMC (Br 2, Br 10, Br 13, Br 40a, Br 48, Br 52, and Br 100) to study their physical nature and evolutionary stages. New CCD imaging and echelle observations have been obtained for five of these nebulae; previous photographic imaging and echelle observations are available for the remaining two nebulae. Using the nebular dynamics and abundances, we find that the Br 13 nebula is a circumstellar bubble, and that the Br 2 nebula may represent a circumstellar bubble merging with a fossil main-sequence interstellar bubble. The nebulae around Br 10, Br 52, and Br 100 all show influence of the ambient interstellar medium. Their regular expansion patterns suggest that they still contain significant amounts of circumstellar material. Their nebular abundances would be extremely interesting, as their central stars are WC5 and WN3-4 stars whose nebular abundances have not been derived previously. Intriguing and tantalizing implications are obtained from comparisons of the LMC WR ring nebulae with ring nebulae around Galactic WR stars, Galactic LBVs, LMC LBVs, and LMC BSGs; however, these implications may be limited by small-number statistics. A SNR candidate close to Br 2 is diagnosed by its large expansion velocity and nonthermal radio emission. There is no indication that Br 2's ring nebula interacts dynamically with this SNR candidate. 
By accumulating all available radial velocity data and combining it with our own spectroscopy we present a new and improved ephemeris for Cygnus X-1 (V1357 Cygni/HDE226868). We initially calculate an orbital period of 5.599847+/-0.000018.days and then, by including the more recent radial velocities of LaSala et al. (1998) and Sowers et al.(1998) we refine this to 5.599829+/-0.000016 days. Using 27 years' worth of photometry, we also calculate a photometric period of 5.599836+/-0.000024 - remarkably similar to the spectroscopic one. 
The Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope (CFHT) Adaptive Optics Bonnette (AOB) has been used to obtain high angular resolution JHK images of the centers of the metal-poor globular clusters NGC5272 (M3), NGC6205 (M13), NGC6287, and NGC6341 (M92). The color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs) derived from these data include the upper main sequence and most of the red giant branch (RGB), and the cluster sequences agree with published photometric measurements of bright stars in these clusters. The photometric accuracy is limited by PSF variations, which introduce systematic errors of a few hundredths of a magnitude near the AO reference star.   The clusters are paired according to metallicity, and the near-infrared CMDs and luminosity functions are used to investigate the relative ages within each pair. The near-infrared CMDs provide the tightest constraints on the relative ages of the classical second parameter pair NGC5272 and NGC6205, and indicate that these clusters have ages that differ by no more than +/- 1 Gyr. These results thus support the notion that age is not the second parameter. We tentatively conclude that NGC6287 and NGC6341 have ages that differ by no more than +/- 2 Gyr. However, the near-infrared spectral energy distributions of stars in NGC6287 appear to differ from those of stars in outer halo clusters, bringing into question the validity of this age estimate. 
Quasi-thermal Comptonization in internal shocks formed between relativistic shells can account for the high energy emission of gamma-ray bursts. This is in fact the dominant cooling mechanism if the typical energy of the emitting particles is achieved either through the balance between heating and cooling or as a result of electron-positron pair production. Both processes yield sub or mildly relativistic energies. In this case the synchrotron spectrum is self-absorbed, providing the seed soft photons for the Comptonization process, whose spectrum is flat [F(v) ~ const], ending either in an exponential cutoff or a Wien peak, depending on the scattering optical depth of the emitting particles. Self-consistent particle energy and optical depth are estimated and found in agreement with the observed spectra. 
ISO-SWS spectroscopy of the WR galaxy NGC5253 is presented, and analysed to provide estimates of its hot young star population. Our approach differs from previous investigations in that we are able to distinguish between the regions in which different infrared fine-structure lines form, using complementary ground-based observations. The high excitation nebular [SIV] emission is formed in a very compact region, which we attribute to the central super-star-nucleus, and lower excitation [NeII] nebular emission originates in the galactic core. We use photo-ionization modelling coupled with the latest theoretical O-star flux distributions to derive effective stellar temperatures and ionization parameters of Teff>38kK, logQ=8.25 for the compact nucleus, with Teff=35kK, logQ<8 for the larger core. Results are supported by more sophisticated calculations using evolutionary synthesis models. We assess the contribution that Wolf-Rayet stars may make to highly ionized nebular lines (e.g. [OIV]).   From our Br(alpha) flux, the 2" nucleus contains the equivalent of approximately 1000 O7V star equivalents and the starburst there is 2-3Myr old; the 20" core contains about 2500 O7V star equivalents, with a representative age of 5Myr. The Lyman ionizing flux of the nucleus is equivalent to the 30 Doradus region. These quantities are in good agreement with the observed mid-IR dust luminosity of 7.8x10^8 L(sun) Since this structure of hot clusters embedded in cooler emission may be common in dwarf starbursts, observing a galaxy solely with a large aperture may result in confusion. Neglecting the spatial distribution of nebular emission in NGC5253, implies `global' stellar temperatures (or ages) of 36kK (4.8Myr) and 39kK (2.9 or 4.4Myr) from the observed [NeIII/II] and [SIV/III] line ratios, assuming logQ=8. 
A major recent development in extragalactic astronomy has been the discovery of a population of galaxies that are luminous at submillimetre wavelengths. Estimates of their spectral energy distributions suggest that these galaxies are the high-redshift analogues of the ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIGs) observed locally. We identify plausible (but non-unique) redshift-dependent galaxy luminosity functions that are consistent with both source counts at 2800, 850, 450 and and 175 microns, and far-infrared background radiation intensities at 850, 240 and 140 microns. In all our models, most of the submillimetre-luminous sources are distant galaxies with high bolometric luminosities >= 10^12 L_sun. As for many local ULIGs it is not possible to determine whether these luminous galaxies are powered by starbursts, like the local galaxy Arp 220, or by active galactic nuclei (AGN), like the local galaxy Markarian 231. If the submillimetre-luminous galaxies are all starbursts, then we predict that the fraction of the cosmic star-formation rate in these objects is large, but but does not necessarily dominate the star-formation rate of the Universe at any redshift. Only a few per cent by mass of the present-epoch spheroidal stellar population would have been formed in such a population of star-forming galaxies, consistent with constraints on the number of galaxies with old stellar populations in the field at low and intermediate redshift derived from K-band surves. If the submillimetre-luminous galaxies are all powered by AGN, then the comoving density of supermassive black holes onto which material is accreting at high redshift probably equals no more than a few per cent of the local density of massive dark objects. 
The non-linear hydrodynamic stability of thin, compressible, Keplerian disks is studied on the large two-dimensional compressible scale, using a high-order accuracy spectral method. We show that purely hydrodynamic perturbations, while developing initially into sheared disturbances or coherent vortices, do not evolve into a self-sustained turbulence. This is in complete agreement with the conclusions of Balbus and Hawley (1998). We demonstrate that, temporarily, energy is being transferred to the largest scale mode (before dissipating). In the case of an inner reflecting boundary condition it is found that the innermost disk is globally unstable to non-axisymmetric modes which can evolve into turbulence. However, this turbulence is not expected to play a major role in angular momentum transport in the disk. 
The Molonglo Observatory Synthesis Telescope, operating at 843 MHz with a 5 square degree field of view, is carrying out a radio imaging survey of the sky south of declination -30 deg. This survey (the Sydney University Molonglo Sky Survey, or SUMSS) produces images with a resolution of 43" x 43" cosec(Dec.) and an rms noise level of about 1 mJy/beam. SUMSS is therefore similar in sensitivity and resolution to the northern NRAO VLA Sky Survey (NVSS; Condon et al. 1998). The survey is progressing at a rate of about 1000 square degrees per year, yielding individual and statistical data for many thousands of weak radio sources. This paper describes the main characteristics of the survey, and presents sample images from the first year of observation. 
We use Monte Carlo simulations of the Calan/Tololo photographic supernova survey to show that a simple model of the survey's selection effects accounts for the observed distributions of recession velocity, apparent magnitude, angular offset, and projected radial distance between the supernova and the host galaxy nucleus for this sample of Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia). The model includes biases due to the flux-limited nature of the survey, the different light curve morphologies displayed by different SNe Ia, and the difficulty of finding events projected near the central regions of the host galaxies. From these simulations we estimate the bias in the zero-point and slope of the absolute magnitude-decline rate relation used in SNe Ia distance measurements. For an assumed intrinsic scatter of 0.15 mag about this relation, these selection effects decrease the zero-point by 0.04 mag. The slope of the relation is not significantly biased. We conclude that despite selection effects in the survey, the shape and zero-point of the relation determined from the Calan/Tololo sample are quite reliable. We estimate the degree of incompleteness of the survey as a function of decline rate and estimate a corrected luminosity function for SNe Ia in which the frequency of SNe appears to increase with decline rate (the fainter SNe are more common). Finally, we compute the integrated detection efficiency of the survey in order to infer the rate of SNe Ia from the 31 events found. For a value of Ho=65 km/sec/Mpc we obtain a SN Ia rate of 0.21(+0.30)(-0.13) SNu. This is in good agreement with the value 0.16+/-0.05 SNu recently determined by Capellaro et al. (1997). 
We report on numerical calculations of nonadiabatic eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for g-modes in ZZ Ceti variables. The spectrum of overstable $l=1$ modes delineates the instability strip. Its blue edge occurs where $\omega \tau_c \approx 1$ for the $n=1$ mode. Here $\omega$ is radian frequency and $\tau_c$ is about four times the thermal timescale at the bottom of the surface convection zone. As a ZZ Ceti cools, its convection zone deepens, longer period modes become overstable, but the critical value of $\omega\tau_c$ separating overstable and damped modes rises. The latter is a consequence of enhanced radiative damping for modes which propagate immediately below the convection zone. The critical value of $\omega\tau_c$ is of observational significance because modes with the smallest value of $\omega\tau_c$ are most observable photometrically. Maximum periods for overstable modes predicted for our cooler model envelopes are about a factor two longer than the observational upper limit of $1,200\s$. We assess a number of plausible resolutions for this discrepancy among which convective overshoot and nonlinear saturation look promising. The nonadiabatic eigenfunctions enable us to predict relative amplitudes and phases of photospheric variations of flux and velocity, quantities made accessible by recent observations. We also present asymptotic formula for damping rates of high order modes, a result of consequence for future investigations of nonlinear saturation of the amplidues of overstable modes. 
We have obtained Keck Low Resolution Imaging Spectrograph images in V and I of the newly discovered Local Group dwarf galaxies Pegasus dSph and Cassiopeia dSph and their surrounding field. The first stellar luminosity functions and color-magnitude diagrams are presented for stars with V <~ 25 and I <~ 24. The distances to the new dwarfs are estimated from the apparent I mag of the tip of the red giant branch to be: D_MW (Peg dSph) = 830 +/- 80 kpc and D_MW (Cas dSph) = 760 +/- 70 kpc, consistent with their belonging to the extended M31 satellite system. Both galaxies are dwarf spheroidals (dSphs) with red giant branch morphologies indicating predominantly old stellar populations and estimated mean metallicities, <[Fe/H]>, of -1.3 +/- 0.3 for Peg dSph and -1.4 +/- 0.3 for Cas dSph. Their central surface brightness-<[Fe/H]>-absolute magnitude relationship follows that of other Local Group dSphs, dwarf ellipticals, and dwarf irregulars. In contrast to four out of nine Milky Way dSphs (the four that lie beyond D_MW =100 kpc), none of the six known M31 dSphs appears to have a dominant intermediate-age population. 
I review recent observational and theoretical progress in our understanding of the cosmic evolution of luminous sources. Through a combination of deep imaging, Keck spectroscopy, and COBE background measurements, important constraints have emerged on the emission history of the galaxy population as a whole. A simple stellar evolution model, defined by a star-formation density that rises from z=0 to z=1.5, a universal Salpeter IMF, and a moderate amount of dust with A_V=0.23 mag (A_1500=1.2 mag), is able to account for most of the optical-FIR extragalactic background light, and reproduces the global ultraviolet, optical, and near-IR photometric properties of the universe. By contrast, a star-formation density that stayed roughly constant at all epochs appears to overproduce the local K-band luminosity density. While the bulk of the stars present today formed relatively recently, the existence of a decline in the star-formation density above z=2 remains uncertain. If stellar sources are responsible for photoionizing the intergalactic medium at z=5, the rate of star formation at this epoch must be comparable or greater than the one inferred from optical observations of galaxies at z=3. A population of dusty AGNs at z>2 could make a significant contribution to the FIR background if the accretion efficiency is close to 10%. 
Does Nature yield any manifestations of parity violation other than those observed in weak interactions? A map of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) temperature and polarization will provide a new signature of P violation. We give two examples of new P violating interactions, which may have something to do with Planck-scale physics, inflation, and/or quintessence, that would give rise to such a signature. Although these effects would most likely elude detection by MAP and the Planck Surveyor, they may be detectable with a future dedicated CMB polarization experiment. 
We present multiwaveband observations of a well selected sample of 28 quasars and two radio galaxies with flat radio spectra and strong millimeter wave emission (referred to here as FSRQ's). The observations include multifrequency VLBI measurements, X-ray observations with ROSAT and submillimeter observations with the JCMT. Particularly interesting among many findings is a correlation between the X-ray to millimeter spectral index and fraction of flux density contained in the VLBI core. This tendency toward higher X-ray fluxes from sources with stronger jet emission implies that the knots in the jet are the prominent source of X-rays. 
We present ISOCAM 7 micron and 15 micron observations of 12 nearby white dwarfs, 6 of which have been found to have metals such as Ca, Mg and Fe in their photospheres. Our purpose was to search for an excess of infrared emission above the stellar photospheres. We find that none of the white dwarfs other than G29-38 shows a detectable infrared excess and this places strong constraints on the existence of a dusty disk around these stars. We conclude that ongoing accretion of the interstellar medium seems an unlikely explanation for the existence of metals in the photospheres of cool hydrogen atmosphere white dwarfs.   The excess associated with G29-38 is 3.8+/-1.0 mJy and 2.9+/-0.6 mJy at 7 micron and 15 micron respectively. The broadband spectrum of this star strengthens the hypothesis that the infrared excess arises from a disk of particulate matter surrounding the white dwarf rather than from a cool brown dwarf companion. 
After a discussion of the physical processes in brown dwarfs, we present a complete, precise definition of brown dwarfs and of planets inspired by the internal physics of objects between 0.1 and 0.001 M_sun. We discuss observational techniques for characterizing low-luminosity objects as brown dwarfs, including the use of the lithium test and cooling curves. A brief history of the search for brown dwarfs leads to a detailed review of known isolated brown dwarfs with emphasis on those in the Pleiades star cluster. We also discuss brown dwarf companions to nearby stars, paying particular attention to Gliese 229B, the only known cool brown dwarf. 
We outline reasoning that led to the current theory of quasars and look at George Contopoulos's place in the long history of the N-body problem. Following Newton we find new exactly soluble N-body problems with multibody forces and give a strange eternally pulsating system that in its other degrees of freedom reaches statistical equilibrium. 
ISO-SWS spectral observations of the supernova remnant IC443 are presented. Like other radiative SNRs, this object is characterized by prominent line-emitting filaments and relatively strong IRAS 12 and 25 micron emission which is commonly interpreted as thermal radiation from very small grains stochastically heated by collisions with the hot plasma behind the shock front. This interpretation is challenged by the data presented in this Letter which indicate that most of the 12 and 25 micron IRAS flux is accounted for by ionized line emission (mainly [NeII] and [FeII]). This result also seems to hold for other radiative SNRs. We also discuss the possible contribution of H_2 lines to the IRAS 12 micron flux from the southern rim of IC443 and briefly analyze the element abundances derived from the observed ionic lines. 
We first review the current knowledge of Hipparcos systematic and random errors, in particular small-scale correlations. Then, assuming Gaussian parallax errors and using examples from the recent Hipparcos literature, we show how random errors may be misinterpreted as systematic errors, or transformed into systematic errors.   Finally we summarise how to get unbiased estimates of absolute magnitudes and distances, using either Bayesian or non-parametrical methods. These methods may be applied to get either mean quantities or individual estimates. In particular, we underline the notion of astrometry-based luminosity, which avoids the truncation biases and allows a full use of Hipparcos samples. 
In this research we use a large sample of field metal-poor stars ([Fe/H]<-1) in different evolutionary phases to prove observationally that (small mass) subgiants (stars brighter than the first dredge-up and fainter than the RGB bump) have abundances of light elements in agreement with predictions from classical evolutionary models. A further mixing episode occurs just after the RGB bump, in agreement with the predictions by Charbonnel (1994, A&A, 282, 811; 1995, ApJ, 453, L41) The O-Na anti-correlation, typical signature observed amongst globular cluster giants, is not present amongst field stars. 
AGILE is an innovative, cost-effective gamma-ray mission proposed to the ASI Program of Small Scientific Missions.   It is planned to detect gamma-rays in the 30 MeV - 50 GeV energy band and operate as an {\bf Observatory} open to the international community. Primary scientific goals include the study of AGNs, gamma-ray bursts, Galactic sources, unidentified gamma-ray sources, solar flares, and diffuse gamma-ray emission. AGILE is planned to be operational during the year 2001 for a 3-year mission. It will ideally `fill the gap' between EGRET and GLAST, and support ground-based multiwavelength studies of high-energy sources. 
An extensive grid of metal-rich isochrones utilizing the latest available input physics has been calculated for comparison with the old, metal-rich open cluster NGC 6791. The isochrones have been simultaneously fit to BV and VI color magnitude diagrams, with the same composition, reddening and distance modulus required for both colors. Our best fitting isochrone assumes [Fe/H] = +0.4, scaled solar abundance ratios, and dY/dZ = 2 (Y = 0.31), yielding an excellent fit to the data at all points along the major sequences. The resulting age is 8 Gyr, with E(B-V) = 0.10 and (m-M)_v = 13.42. The derived cluster parameters are fairly robust to variations in the isochrone [Fe/H] and helium abundances. All of the acceptable fits indicate that 0.07 < E(B-V) < 0.14$, 13.29 < (m-M)_v < 13.46, and that NGC 6791 has an age of 8.0+/- 0.5 Gyr. The fits also suggest that dY/dZ lies between 1 and 3. A metallicity as low as solar is clearly ruled out, as is dY/dZ = 0. Comparison with previous isochrone studies indicates that the derived reddening is primarily due to our use of the most recent color transformations, whereas the age depends upon both the colors and the input physics. Our isochrones provide an excellent fit to the Hyades zero-age main sequence as determined by Hipparcos, providing evidence that our derived reddening and distance modulus are reliable. 
The distance modulus of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) is the first step on the determination of the cosmic distance scale. In this paper it is obtained from a new calibration of the classical Cepheid Period-Luminosity (PL) relation. Our new calibration is obtained by applying the LM method -- a parametric method designed to obtain luminosity calibrations from astrometric information -- to the Hipparcos data for Classical Cepheids. The resulting distance modulus is $18.35^{m}\pm 0.13$. 
Coronal Mass Ejections continuously drag closed magnetic field lines away from the Sun, adding new flux to the interplanetary magnetic field (IMF). We propose that the outward-moving blobs that have been observed in helmet streamers are evidence of ongoing, small-scale reconnection in streamer current sheets, which may play an important role in the prevention of an indefinite buildup of the IMF. Reconnection between two open field lines from both sides of a streamer current sheet creates a new closed field line, which becomes part of the helmet, and a disconnected field line, which moves outward. The blobs are formed by plasma from the streamer that is swept up in the trough of the outward moving field line. We show that this mechanism is supported by observations from SOHO/LASCO. Additionally, we propose a thorough statistical study to quantify the contribution of blob formation to the reduction of the IMF, and indicate how this mechanism may be verified by observations with SOHO/UVCS and the proposed NASA STEREO and ESA Polar Orbiter missions. 
A lot of information concerning the mechanism of nova explosions will be extracted from the possible future observations with INTEGRAL. In order to be prepared for this task, we are performing detailed models of the gamma-ray emission of classical novae, for a wide range of possible initial conditions. Spectra at different epochs after the explosion and light curves for the different lines (511, 478 and 1275 keV) and the continuum are presented, as well as the detectability distances with INTEGRAL spectrometer SPI. New results related to 18F synthesis related to very recent data of nuclear physics are advanced as preliminary. 
We present epoch 1996, high-quality radial velocity data for HDE 226868, the optical counterpart of Cygnus X-1. Combining our results with all published historical data, we have derived a new ephemeris for the system of HJD2450235.29 + n x 5.5998, which allows accurate orbital phase calculations to be made for any X-ray observations over the last 30 years. We find no evidence for any period change as has been suggested by Ninkov, Walker & Yang (1987). We discuss the shortcomings of previous work in establishing the period and orbital elements. 
The combined use of the ESO Very Large Telescope (VLT) UT1 Science Verification (SV) images and of the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) Hubble Deep Field South observations allows us to strengthen the identification as a candidate elliptical galaxy of the Extremely Red Object HDFS 223251-603910 previously identified by us on the basis of NICMOS and Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory imaging. The photometry presented here includes VLT data in U, B, V, R, I, a STIS unfiltered image, NICMOS J, H, and K band data, thus combining the 16.5 hours of VLT SV exposures with 101 hours of HST observing. The object is detected in all images except the VLT U band and is one of the reddest known with B-K=9.7+-0.5. We consider a wide range of models with different ages, metallicities, star formation histories and dust content, and conclude that the observed spectral energy distribution agrees best with that of an old elliptical galaxy at redshift just below 2. Alternative possibilities are discussed in light of their likelihood and of the perspective of spectroscopic confirmation. 
Subclustering is investigated in a set of 67 rich cluster galaxy samples extracted from the ESO Nearby Abell Cluster Survey (ENACS) catalog. We apply four well-known statistical techniques to evaluate the frequency with which substructure occurs. These diagnostics are sensitive to different aspects of the spatial and velocity distribution of galaxies and explore different scales, thus providing complementary tests of subclustering. The skewness and kurtosis of the global radial velocity distributions, useful for judging the normality, and the powerful $\Delta$ test of Dressler & Shectman, which measures local deviations from the global kinematics, show that the ENACS clusters exhibit a degree of clumpiness in reasonable agreement with that found in other less homogeneous and smaller cluster datasets. On the other hand, the average two-point correlation function of the projected galaxy distributions reveals that only $\sim 10%$ of the systems investigated show evidence for substructure at scale lengths smaller than 0.2 \mpc. This is much less than in earlier studies based on the Dressler & Shectman's cluster sample. We find indications of a possible systematic deficiency of galaxies at small intergalactic separations in the ENACS clusters. 
Studies of the distribution and evolution of galaxies are of fundamental importance to modern cosmology; these studies, however, are hampered by the complexity of the competing effects of spectral and density evolution. Constructing a spectroscopic sample that is able to unambiguously disentangle these processes is currently excessively prohibitive due to the observational requirements. This paper extends and applies an alternative approach that relies on statistical estimates for both distance (z) and spectral type to a deep multi-band dataset that was obtained for this exact purpose.   These statistical estimates are extracted directly from the photometric data by capitalizing on the inherent relationships between flux, redshift, and spectral type. These relationships are encapsulated in the empirical photometric redshift relation which we extend to z ~ 1.2, with an intrinsic dispersion of dz = 0.06. We also develop realistic estimates for the photometric redshift error for individual objects, and introduce the utilization of the galaxy ensemble as a tool for quantifying both a cosmological parameter and its measured error. We present deep, multi-band, optical number counts as a demonstration of the integrity of our sample. Using the photometric redshift and the corresponding redshift error, we can divide our data into different redshift intervals and spectral types. As an example application, we present the number redshift distribution as a function of spectral type. 
This paper presents ground-based data obtained from deep optical and infrared observations of the HST Hubble Deep Field South (HDF-S) field carried out at the ESO 3.5 New Technology Telescope (NTT). These data were taken as part of the ESO Imaging Survey (EIS) program, a public survey coordinated by ESO and member states, in preparation for the first year of operation of the VLT. Deep CCD images are available for five optical passbands, reaching 2 sigma limiting magnitudes of U_AB~27.0, B_AB~26.5, V_AB~26, R_AB~26, I_AB~25, covering a region of ~25 square arcmin, which includes the HST WPFC2 field. The infrared observations cover a total area of ~42 square arcmin and include both the HST WFPC2 and STIS fields. The observations of the WFPC2 region were conducted in JHKs passbands, reaching J_AB~25, and H_AB and K_AB~24.0. Due to time constraints, the adjacent field, covering the STIS field, has been observed only in R, I and JHKs, while no observations were conducted covering the NIC3 field. This paper describes the observations and data reduction. It also presents images of the surveyed region and lists the optical and infrared photometric parameters of the objects detected on the co-added images of each passband, as well as multicolor optical and infrared catalogs. These catalogs together with the astrometrically and photometrically calibrated co-added images are being made public world-wide and can be retrieved from the world-wide web (http://www.eso.org/eis). 
A restricted planar circular three-body system, consisting of the Sun and two planets, is studied as a simple model for a planetary system. The mass of the inner planet is considered to be larger and the system is assumed to be moving in a uniform interplanetary medium with constant density. Numerical integrations of this system indicate a resonance capture when the dynamical friction of the interplanetary medium is taken into account. As a result of this resonance trapping, the ratio of orbital periods of the two planets becomes nearly commensurate and the eccentricity and semimajor axis of the orbit of the outer planet and also its angular momentum and total energy become constant. It appears from the numerical work that the resulting commensurability and also the resonant values of the orbital elements of the outer planet are essentially independent of the initial relative positions of the two bodies. The results of numerical integrations of this system are presented and the first-order partially averaged equations are studied in order to elucidate the behavior of the system while captured in resonance. 
Microlensing events observed in the line of sight toward the LMC indicate that a significant fraction of the mass of the dark halo of the Galaxy is probably composed of white dwarfs. In addition, white dwarf sequences have now be observed in the HR diagrams of several globular clusters. Because of the unavailability of white dwarf atmospheres for Teff < 4000K, cooling time scales for white dwarfs older than ~ 10 Gyr are very uncertain. Moreover, the identification of a MACHO white dwarf population by direct observation depends on a knowledge of the colors and bolometric corrections of very-cool white dwarfs.   In this paper we present the first detailed model atmospheres and spectra of very cool hydrogen white dwarfs for Teff < 4000K. We include the latest description of the opacities of hydrogen and significantly, we introduce a non-ideal equation of state in the atmosphere calculation. We find that due to strong absorption from H_2 in the infrared, very old white dwarfs are brightest in the V, R, and I bands, and we confirm that they become bluer in most color indices as they cool below Teff ~ 3500K. 
Spectrum of Seyfert 1 Galaxies (S1G hereafter) is very similar to that of several Galactic Black Hole Candidates (GBHCs) in their hard state, suggestive that both classes of objects have similar physical processes. However, recent work has shown that reprocessing features make the patchy corona-disk model (PCD model: the best current explanation of S1G spectrum) problematic for GBHCs. To address the similarities and differences in spectrum of Seyferts and GBHCs, we consider the structure of the ionized X-ray skin near an active magnetic flare. We show that the X-ray skin is subject to a thermal instability, similar in nature to the well known ionization instability of quasar emission line regions. Due to the much higher ionizing X-ray flux in GBHCs, the only stable solution for the upper layer of the accretion disk is that in which it is highly ionized and is at the Compton temperature ($\sim $ few keV). We show that this accounts for the difference in spectrum of GBHCs and S1G. In addition, same instability, applied to S1G, leads to the X-ray skin temperature $T\sim 1-3\times 10^5$ Kelvin, which then may explain the observed spectral shape of BBB. 
Recent progress in observations and understanding of spectra of Seyfert Galaxies shows that X-rays are most likely produced by magnetic flares on the surface of the disk, similar to Solar X-ray emission. However, while the model reproduces the shape of the spectrum well, the question of the overall normalization of the X-ray component relative to the bolometric luminosity has not been previously considered. Here we show that, in gas-dominated accretion disks, the magnetic energy transport can indeed power the corona in a way consistent with observations, {\it if} magnetic field in the disk is mostly contained to strong magnetic flux tubes. However, in radiation dominated disks radiation diffusion makes the field weak/diffuse, and thus the magnetic energy transport is less efficient, i.e., in such disks the disk intrinsic emission should be the dominant component in the overall spectrum. We compare our findings to observations, and conclude that our theory can account for the often observed ``steeper when brighter'' behavior in AGN and the hard-soft spectral transitions in GBHCs. 
We have carried out a spectropolarimetric search for hidden broad-line quasars in three ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) discovered in the positional correlations between sources detected in deep radio surveys and the IRAS Faint Source Catalog. Only the high-ionization Seyfert 2 galaxy TF J1736+1122 is highly polarized, displaying a broad-line spectrum visible in polarized light. The other two objects, TF J1020+6436 and FF J1614+3234, display spectra dominated by a population of young (A-type) stars similar to those of ``E + A'' galaxies. They are unpolarized, showing no sign of hidden broad-line regions. The presence of young starburst components in all three galaxies indicates that the ULIRG phenomenon encompasses both AGN and starburst activity, but the most energetic ULIRGs do not necessarily harbor ``buried quasars''.   We find that a luminous infrared galaxy is most likely to host an obscured quasar if it exhibits a high-ionization ([O III] 5007/Hb >~ 5) spectrum typical of a ``classic'' Seyfert 2 galaxy with little or no Balmer absorption lines, is ``ultraluminous'' (L_IR >~ 10^12 L_sun), and has a ``warm'' IR color (f_25/f_60 >~ 0.25). The detection of hidden quasars in this group but not in the low-ionization, starburst-dominated ULIRGs (classified as LINERs or H II galaxies) may indicate an evolutionary connection, with the latter being found in younger systems. 
We present new evolutionary stellar models suitable for old Population I clusters, discussing both the consequences of the most recent improvements in the input physics and the effect of element diffusion within the stellar structures. Theoretical cluster isochrones are presented, covering the range of ages from 1 to 9 Gyr for the four selected choices on the metallicity Z= 0.007, 0.010, 0.015 and 0.020. Theoretical uncertainties on the efficiency of superadiabatic convection are discussed in some details. Isochrone fitting to the CM diagrams of the two well observed galactic clusters NGC2420 and M67 indicates that a mixing length parameter alpha = 1.9 appears adequate for reproducing the observed color of cool giant stars. The problems in matching theoretical preditions to the observed slope of MS stars are discussed. 
We present the tidal tail distributions of a sample of candidate binary clusters located in the bar of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). One isolated cluster, SL 268, is presented in order to study the effect of the LMC tidal field. All the candidate binary clusters show tidal tails, confirming that the pairs are formed by physically linked objects. The stellar mass in the tails covers a large range, from $1.8\times 10^3$ to $3\times 10^4$\msun. We derive a total mass estimate for SL 268 and SL 356. At large radii, the projected density profiles of SL 268 and SL 356 fall off as $r^{-\gamma}$, with $\gamma= 2.27$ and $\gamma=3.44$, respectively. Out of 4 pairs or multiple systems, 2 are older than the theoretical survival time of binary clusters (going from a few $10^6$ yr to $10^8$ yr). A pair shows too large age difference between the components to be consistent with classical theoretical models of binary cluster formation (Fujimoto & Kumai 1997). We refer to this as the ``overmerging'' problem.A different scenario is proposed: the formation proceeds in large molecular complexes giving birth to groups of clusters over a few $10^7$ yr. In these groups the expected cluster encounter rate is larger, and tidal capture has higher probability. Cluster pairs are not born together through the splitting of the parent cloud, but formed later by tidal capture. For 3 pairs, we tentatively identify the star cluster group (SCG) memberships. The SCG formation, through the recent cluster starburst triggered by the LMC-SMC encounter, in contrast with the quiescent open cluster formation in the Milky Way can be an explanation to the paucity of binary clusters observed in our Galaxy. 
The gamma ray burst (GRB) 980425 is distinctive in that it seems to be associated with supernova (SN) 1998bw, has no X-ray afterglow, and has a single peak light curve and a soft spectrum. The supernova is itself unusual in that its expansion velocity exceeds c/6. We suggest that many of these features can be accounted for with the hypothesis that we observe the GRB along a penumbral line of sight that contains mainly photons that have scattered off ejected baryons. The hypothesis suggests a baryon poor jet (BPJ) existing within a baryon rich outflow. The sharp distinction can be attributed to whether or not the magnetic field lines thread an event horizon. Such a configuration suggests that there will be some non-thermal acceleration of pick-up ex-neutrons within the BPJ. This scenario might produce observable spallation products and neutrinos. 
We present a new analysis of the deuterium absorption at z = 2.504 towards the quasar Q1009+2956 using the mesoturbulent model which accounts for possible correlations in the large scale velocity field. We obtain a slightly higher deuterium-to-hydrogen ratio D/H = (3.5 - 5.0)*10^{-5} as compared with the recent measurement D/H = (3.3 - 4.5)*10^{-5} (68% C.L.) performed by Burles & Tytler (1998b) using the usual microturbulent approximation which assumes that the velocity field is uncorrelated. Other mesoturbulent calculations of the D-abundances at z = 3.572 towards Q1937--1009 and at z = 0.701 towards Q1718+4807 (the systems showing `low' and possibly `high' D/H values, respectively, in the microturbulent approaches) agree with the present one within the errors of measurements. Thus, the mesoturbulent analysis does not reveal any spatial variations of D/H and supports the standard homogeneous model of big bang nucleosynthesis. 
It is widely accepted that shell galaxies form as a result of a merger between an elliptical and a small disk galaxy. Simulations of the stellar component have shown that the shells are created either by ``phase-wrapping'' of debris on nearly radial orbits (Quinn 1984), or by ``spatial-wrapping'' of matter in thin disks (Dupraz & Combes 1987; Hernquist & Quinn 1989; Quillen etal 1993). However, recent HI observations of several shell galaxies (Schiminovich etal 1994, 1995) revealed the presence of gaseous shells displaced from the stellar ones, which questioned the validity of the ``phase-wrapping'' mechanism. Our numerical simulations indicate that these new observations can actually be accommodated within the standard picture for the formation of shell galaxies. 
In a coalescing neutron star-neutron star (NS-NS) or neutron star-black hole (NS-BH) binary, oscillation modes of the NS can be resonantly excited by the companion during the final minutes of the inspiral. The resonant energy transfer between the orbit and NS speeds up or slows down the inspiral and induces a phase change in the emitted gravitational waves from the binary. A tidal resonance, (jk,m), occurs when the mode frequency equals m times the orbital frequency. For f-mode resonance to occur before coalescence, the NS must have rapid rotation, with spin frequency nu_s>710Hz for (22,2)-resonance and nu_s>570Hz for (33,3)-resonance (M=1.4Mo and R=10km; however, for R=15km, these spin frequencies become 330Hz and 250Hz). Because of strong tidal coupling, f-mode resonances induce a large change in the number of orbital cycles, N_orb, with maximum N_orb~10-1000 for (22,2)-resonance and N_orb~1 for (33,3)- resonance. Such resonant effects, if present, must be included in constructing waveform templates used in searching for gravitational wave signals. Higher order f-mode resonances can occur at slower rotation rates, but N_orb<0.1. For the dominant g-mode (22,2)-resonance, even modest rotation (nu_s<100Hz) can enhance the resonant effect on the orbit by shifting resonance to a smaller orbital frequency. However, because of the weak coupling, N_orb lies in the range 10^-3-10^-2 (depending on the NS EOS) and is probably negligible for the purpose of detecting gravitational waves. R-mode resonances require misaligned spin-orbit inclinations, and the dominant resonances correspond to (22,3) and (22,1). Since tidal coupling depends strongly on rotation rate, N_orb<10^-2(R/10km)^(10)(M/1.4Mo)^(-20/3) is negligible for canonical NS parameters but can be appreciable if the NS radius is larger. 
We have recently discovered that the modified dynamics (MOND) implies some universal upper bound on the acceleration that can be contributed by a `dark halo'--assumed in a Newtonian analysis to account for the effects of MOND. Not surprisingly, the limit is of the order of the acceleration constant of the theory. This can be contrasted directly with the results of structure-formation simulations. The new limit is substantial and different from earlier MOND acceleration limits (discussed in connection with the MOND explanation of the Freeman law for galaxy disks, and the Fish law for ellipticals): It pertains to the `halo', and not to the observed galaxy; it is absolute, and independent of further physical assumptions on the nature of the galactic system; and it applies at all radii, whereas the other limits apply only to the mean acceleration in the system. 
The properties of the analitycal phase--space distribution function of two-component spherical self-consistent galaxy models, where one density distribution follows the Hernquist profile, and the other a gamma=0 model, with different total masses and core radii (H0 models), presented in Ciotti (1998), are here summarized. A variable amount of radial Osipkov-Merritt orbital anisotropy is allowed in both components. The necessary and sufficient conditions that the model parameters must satisfy in order to correspond to a model where each one of the two distinct components has a positive DF (the so-called model consistency) are analytically derived, together with some results on the more general problem of the consistency of two-component gamma1+gamma2 models. The possibility to add in a consistent way a black hole at the center of radially anisotropic gamma models is also discussed. In particular, it is proved that a globally isotropic Hernquist component is consistent for any mass and core radius of the superimposed gamma=0 halo; on the contrary, only a maximum value of the core radius is allowed to the gamma=0 component when a Hernquist halo is added. The combined effect of halo concentration and orbital anisotropy is successively investigated. 
We present a new way of modeling deflagration fronts in reactive fluids, the main emphasis being on turbulent thermonuclear deflagration fronts in white dwarfs undergoing a Type Ia supernova explosion. Our approach is based on a level set method which treats the front as a mathematical discontinuity and allows full coupling between the front geometry and the flow field. With only minor modifications, this method can also be applied to describe contact discontinuities. Two different implementations are described and their physically correct behaviour for simple testcases is shown. First results of the method applied to the concrete problems of Type Ia supernovae and chemical hydrogen combustion are briefly discussed; a more extensive analysis of our astrophysical simulations is given in (Reinecke et al. 1998, MPA Green Report 1122b). 
First results of simulations are presented which compute the dynamical evolution of a Chandrasekhar-mass white dwarf, consisting of equal amounts of carbon and oxygen, from the onset of violent thermonuclear burning, by means of a new two-dimensional numerical code. Since in the interior of such a massive white dwarf nuclear burning progresses on microscopic scales as a sharp discontinuity, a so-called flamelet, which cannot be resolved by any numerical scheme, and since on macroscopic scales the burning front propagates due to turbulence, we make an attempt to model both effects explicitly in the framework of a finite-volume hydrodynamics code. Turbulence is included by a sub-grid model, following the spirit of large eddy simulations, and the well-localized burning front is treated by means of a level set, which allows us to compute the geometrical structure of the front more accurately than with previous methods. The only free parameters of our simulations are the location and the amount of nuclear fuel that is ignited as an initial perturbation. We find that models in which explosive carbon burning is ignited at the center remain bound by the time the front reaches low densities, where we stopped the computations because our description of combustion is no longer applicable. In contrast, off-center ignition models give rise to explosions which, however, are still too weak for typical Type Ia supernovae. Possible reasons for this rather disappointing result are discussed. 
A comlex structure of nuclear disks of normal spiral galaxies was illustrated on the example of five galaxies, observed at 6m telescope. A problem of gravitational stability of nuclear disks is shortly discussed. 
The close X-ray selected BL Lac PKS 2155--304 has been observed using the University of Durham Mark 6 very high energy (VHE) gamma ray telescope during 1996 September/October/November and 1997 October/November. VHE gamma rays with energy > 300 GeV were detected with a time-averaged integral flux of (4.2 +/- 0.7 (stat) +/- 2.0 (sys)) x 10^-11 cm^-2 s^-1. There is evidence for VHE gamma ray emission during our observations in 1996 September and 1997 October/November. The strongest emission was detected in 1997 November, when the object was producing the largest flux ever recorded in high-energy X-rays and was detected in > 100 MeV gamma-rays. The VHE and X-ray fluxes are correlated. 
This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. 
We consider the interpretation of a pair of kHz Quasi Periodic Oscillations (QPOs) in the Fourier spectra of two Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, Sco X-1 and 4U1608-52, hosting an old accreting neutron star. The observed frequency difference of these QPOs decreaseas as their frequency increases, contrary to simple beat frequency models, which predict a constant frequency difference. We show that the behaviour of these QPOs is instead well matched in terms of the fundamental frequencies (in the radial and azimuthal directions) for test particle motion in the gravitational field of the neutron star, for reasonable star masses, and nearly independent of the star spin. The radial frequency must be much smaller than the azimuthal one, testifying that kHz QPOs are produced close to the innermost stable orbit. These results are not reproduced through the post--Newtonian (PN) approximation of General Relativity (GR). kHz QPOs from X-ray binaries likely provide an accurate laboratory for strong field GR. 
We use a compilation of cosmic microwave anisotropy data to constrain the epoch of reionization in the Universe, as a function of cosmological parameters. We consider spatially-flat cosmologies, varying the matter density $\Omega_0$ (the flatness being restored by a cosmological constant), the Hubble parameter $h$ and the spectral index $n$ of the primordial power spectrum. Our results are quoted both in terms of the maximum permitted optical depth to the last-scattering surface, and in terms of the highest allowed reionization redshift assuming instantaneous reionization. For critical-density models, significantly-tilted power spectra are excluded as they cannot fit the current data for any amount of reionization, and even scale-invariant models must have an optical depth to last scattering of below 0.3. For the currently-favoured low-density model with $\Omega_0 = 0.3$ and a cosmological constant, the earliest reionization permitted to occur is at around redshift 35, which roughly coincides with the highest estimate in the literature. We provide general fitting functions for the maximum permitted optical depth, as a function of cosmological parameters. We do not consider the inclusion of tensor perturbations, but if present they would strengthen the upper limits we quote. 
We have performed deep imaging in the IR J- and K-bands for three sub-samples of radio sources extracted from the Westerbork Northern Sky Survey, a large low-frequency radio survey containing Ultra Steep Spectrum (USS), Gigahertz Peaked Spectrum (GPS) and Flat Spectrum (FS) sources. We present the results of these IR observations, carried out with the ARcetri Near Infrared CAmera (ARNICA) at the Nordic Optical Telescope (NOT), providing photometric and morphologic information on high redshift radio galaxies and quasars. We find that the radio galaxies contained in our sample do not show the pronounced radio/IR alignment claimed for 3CR sources. IR photometric measurements of the gravitational lens system 1600+434 are also presented. 
The European Large Area ISO Survey (ELAIS) will provide Infrared observations of 4 regions in the sky with ISO. Around 2000 Infrared sources have been detected at 7 and 15 microns (with ISOCAM), 90 and 175 microns (with ISOPHOT)) over 13 square degrees of the sky. We present the source extraction pipeline of the 90 microns ISOPHOT observations, describe and discuss the results obtained and derive the limits of the ELAIS observational strategy. 
We report on a pre-eclipse dip of the X-ray binary Her X-1 observed by the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) in July 1996. We present the evolution of the spectral parameters in the 3-18 keV range with a temporal resolution of 16 s and show that the varying flux of the spectrum can be interpreted solely by a time varying column density. We also find that the lightcurve is characterized by symmetric substructures with recurrence time of a few minutes that can be successfully modeled by Gaussian profiles. 
We find statistically significant correlations in the cosmological matter power spectrum over the full range of observable scales. While the correlations between individual modes are weak, the band-averaged power spectrum shows strong non-trivial correlations. The correlations are significant when the modes in either one or both bands are in the non-linear regime, and approach 100% for pairs of bands in which all the modes are non-linear. The correlations are weaker, but not absent, when computed in redshift space. Since estimates of the power spectrum from galaxy surveys require band-averaging, the correlations must be taken into account when comparing a measured power spectrum with theoretical models. 
We discuss in detail the possibility of observing pairs of simultaneous parallel air showers produced by the fragments of cosmic ray nuclei which disintegrated in collisions with solar photons. We consider scenarios with different cosmic ray compositions, exploring the predicted rates for existing and planned detectors and looking for methods to extract information on the initial composition from the characteristics of the signal. In particular, we find that fluorescence detectors, such as HiRes or the Telescope Array, due to their low threshold ($\sim 10^{17}$ eV) and large area ($\sim 10^4 km^2$) may observe several events per year if cosmic rays at those energies are indeed heavy nuclei. The possibility of exploiting the angular orientation of the plane containing the two showers to further constrain the cosmic ray composition is also discussed. 
A recent X-ray observation of the cluster 1E0657-56 (z=0.296) with ASCA implied an unusually high temperature of ~17 keV. Such a high temperature would make it the hottest known cluster and severely constrain cosmological since, in a Universe with critical density Omega=1 the probability of observing such a cluster is only 4e-5. Here we test the robustness of this observational result since it has such important implications. We analysed the data using a variety of different data analysis methods and spectral analysis assumptions and find a temperature of ~11-12 keV in all cases, except for one class of spectral fits. These are fits in which the absorbing column density is fixed at the Galactic value. We show that a high temperature of ~17 keV is artificially obtained if the true spectrum has a stronger low- energy cut-off than that for Galactic absorption only. The extra absorption may be astrophysical in origin, or it may be a problem with the low-energy CCD efficiency. Although significantly lower than previous measurements, this temperature of kT ~11-12 keV is still relatively high since only a few clusters have been found to have temperatures higher than 10 keV and the data therefore still present some difficulty for an Omega=1 Universe. Our results will also be useful to anyone who wants to estimate the systematic errors involved in different methods of background subtraction of ASCA data for sources with similar S/N to that of the 1E0657-56 data reported here. 
There is an ongoing debate in cosmology about the value of the length scale at which ``homogeneity'' in the matter distribution is reached or even if such a scale exists. In the wake of this debate, we intend in this letter to clarify the meaning of the statement transition to homogeneity and of the concept of correlation length. We show that there are two scales each associated to the fractal and to the homogeneous regimes of the matter distribution, respectively. The distinction between both scales has deep consequences, for there can be a regime which despite having small fluctuations around the average density exhibits large clusters of galaxies. 
We report measurements of the mass density, Omega_M, and cosmological-constant energy density, Omega_Lambda, of the universe based on the analysis of 42 Type Ia supernovae discovered by the Supernova Cosmology Project. The magnitude-redshift data for these SNe, at redshifts between 0.18 and 0.83, are fit jointly with a set of SNe from the Calan/Tololo Supernova Survey, at redshifts below 0.1, to yield values for the cosmological parameters. All SN peak magnitudes are standardized using a SN Ia lightcurve width-luminosity relation. The measurement yields a joint probability distribution of the cosmological parameters that is approximated by the relation 0.8 Omega_M - 0.6 Omega_Lambda ~= -0.2 +/- 0.1 in the region of interest (Omega_M <~ 1.5). For a flat (Omega_M + Omega_Lambda = 1) cosmology we find Omega_M = 0.28{+0.09,-0.08} (1 sigma statistical) {+0.05,-0.04} (identified systematics). The data are strongly inconsistent with a Lambda = 0 flat cosmology, the simplest inflationary universe model. An open, Lambda = 0 cosmology also does not fit the data well: the data indicate that the cosmological constant is non-zero and positive, with a confidence of P(Lambda > 0) = 99%, including the identified systematic uncertainties. The best-fit age of the universe relative to the Hubble time is t_0 = 14.9{+1.4,-1.1} (0.63/h) Gyr for a flat cosmology. The size of our sample allows us to perform a variety of statistical tests to check for possible systematic errors and biases. We find no significant differences in either the host reddening distribution or Malmquist bias between the low-redshift Calan/Tololo sample and our high-redshift sample. The conclusions are robust whether or not a width-luminosity relation is used to standardize the SN peak magnitudes. 
Several models for the hard X-ray Background (XRB) suggest that it is due to the emission from heavily obscured AGN. Recent studies have revealed the presence of a new population of hard X-ray sources which must contribute significantly to the XRB. However, whether the majority of these sources are obscured AGN or some other type of object at present remains unclear. Here, we further examine the possibility that a significant fraction of the XRB comes from a population of galaxies undergoing advection-dominated accretion in the high-\mdot regime and thus produce intrinsically hard spectra. When the accretion rate is close to its critical value, above which an advection-dominated accretion flow (ADAF) no longer exists, the major contribution to X-ray emission is due to inverse Compton scattering of the soft seed photons produced by cyclo-synchrotron radiation. In this regime, the resulting ADAF spectra are relatively hard with a fairly constant X-ray spectral index \alpha \sim 0.2-0.4 and a spectral cut-off at \sim 200 keV. We show that the integrated emission from such sources can provide a good fit to the hard (> 2 keV) X-ray background, provided that the spectrum is dominated by the contribution from objects located at redshifts z \sim 2-3. The model requires most of the contribution to the XRB to be due to objects accreting at the critical rate. 
If the cores of Galaxies and AGNs comprise Supermassive Stars (SMSs) (Hoyle and Fowler 1963), nuclear energy generation may not be ignited for masses $M > 6\times 10^4 M_\odot$, and highly supermassive stars are likely to generate their luminosity, $L_{KH}$ slow gravitational contraction. We show that for such massive Newtonian SMSs, both the value of $L_{KH}$ and the the accretion luminosity, $L_{acc}$, could be much less than the appropriate Eddington value. Such highly SMSs will have a surface density as low as $10^{-14}$ g/cm$^3$ and they will not behave like a compact object with a ``hard surface'. For all such reasons, it is indeed possible to have $L_{SMS} \ll L_{ed}$. And this effect may be incorrectly interpreted as the evidence for the existence of central Super Massive Black Holes with Event Horizons.   In fact, in a very detailed work, and from various angles, we have recently shown that, the General Theory of Relativity does not permit the occurrenes of ``trapped surfaces'' and Black Holes (Mitra 1998a, gr-qc/9810038). 
We investigate the thermal and dynamical evolution of primordial gas clouds in the universe after decoupling. Comparing the time-scale of dynamical evolution with that of fragmentation, we can estimate the typical fragmentation scale. We propose the following scenario of the formation process of first luminous objects consisting of large number stars. First, by pancake collapse of the overdensity regions in the expanding universe or collision between clouds in potential wells, quasi-plane shocks form. If the shock-heated temperature is higher than about $10^4$ K, the postshock gas cools down to several hundred K by \Hbun line cooling, and the shock-compressed layer fragments into filamentary clouds. The filamentary cloud collapses dynamically once more and fragments into cloud cores. Finally, a primordial star forms in a cloud core. We show that the minimum mass of the first star is essentially determined by the Chandrasekhar mass. Also, we investigate the dynamical collapse of cloud cores by numerical simulation and show that the evolution paths of the central regions of the cores depend only very weakly on the total core mass. After mass accretion, a massive star may be formed in a core, since the estimated mass accretion rate is very large. In such a case, it may be possible for many massive stars form almost simultaneously. Then the clouds can be luminous objects. On the other hand, if the shock-heated temperature is lower, effective star formation is delayed significantly. 
We present the power spectrum analysis of clustering in the Durham/UKST Galaxy Redshift Survey, which covers 1450 square degrees and consists of 2501 galaxy redshifts sampled at a rate of 1 in 3 to b_J = 17. The fluctuations that we measure can be expressed as sigma_{8} = 1.01 +/- 0.17 . We find remarkably good agreement between the power spectrum measured for the Durham/UKST Survey and those from other optical studies, in spite of the very different sampling rates, magnitude limits and survey geometries employed, on scales up to lambda = (2 pi)/k = 80/h Mpc. On scales larger than this we find good agreement with the power measured from the Stromlo-APM Survey (Tadros & Efstathiou), but find more power than estimated from the Las Campanas Redshift Survey (Lin et al). We apply a simple model for redshift space distortions to the real space APM Galaxy Survey power spectrum and find a shape and amplitude that is in very good agreement with the power spectrum of the Durham/UKST Survey. This implies beta=Omega^{0.6}/b=0.60 +/- 0.35, where Omega is the density parameter and b is the bias between fluctuations in the galaxy and mass distributions, and also suggests a one dimensional velocity dispersion of sigma = 320 +/-140 km/s. We find that for any choice of normalisation, the standard CDM model has a shape that cannot be reconciled with the Durham/UKST Survey power spectrum, unless either unacceptably high values of the one dimensional velocity dispersion are adopted or the assumption that bias is constant is invalid on scales greater than 20/h Mpc. Over the range of wavenumbers for which we have a robust measurement of the power spectrum, we find the best agreement is obtained for a critical density CDM model in which the shape of the power spectrum is modified. (Abridged) 
We present in this paper a detailed study of the kinematical properties of the ionized gas around the young massive star clusters in the nucleus of NGC 4214. The analysis is based on bidimensional spectroscopical data, allowing to derive the spatial variation of different properties (intensity, velocity and width / line splitting) of the emission lines H\alpha and [O III] \lambda 5007 along the nuclear region. We have found that the Giant H II region around the two most massive clusters in NGC 4214 (A and B) is resolved into two clearly separated regions. We have not detected superbubbles with the properties we would expect according to the evolutionary state of the stellar clusters, but just a partial ring feature around the most massive one and two expanding shells around cluster B. The first expanding shell seems to have experienced blowout, whereas the second one is still complete. A possible explanation to this phenomenon is that the most massive stars in a starburst spend a large fraction of their lives buried inside their original molecular clouds. Champagne flows might have formed at the borders of the regions, especially on the SE complex, explaining the existence of the diffuse ionized gas around the galaxy. As a consequence of these results we postulate that NGC 4214 is indeed a dwarf spiral galaxy, with a thin (around 200 pc) disk that inhibits the formation of large scale structures in the ISM. The mechanical input deposited by the star formation complexes, in a variety of physical processes that include the free expanding bubbles liberated after blowout and photoevaporation of the parent clouds, have succeeded in generating the structures now detected far from the disk, giving place to the large-scale structure which now enriches the optical appearance of the galaxy. 
The pair of drifting subpulses of the radio pulsar PSR B0031-07 appear to be well separated from each other on the average, overlapping at less than one thirtieth of the peak energy. Strictly, the integrated profile of the pair (after removing the drift) does not show more than two subpulses; however this result is likely to be modified with the availability of more data. On the other hand, rare instances of three simultaneous subpulses in a single period have been noticed. This is consistent with the Ruderman and Sutherland model of the drifting phenomenon in which several sparks, uniformly spaced on a circle, rotate around the polar cap. The third subpulse appears to show up strongly when subpulses belonging to the primary drift bands weaken. Although this conclusion is based mainly on two reliable examples, it suggests an anti correlation of the subpulse energies. The normalised correlation coefficient between the energies of the two subpulses in a period is -0.16 +- 0.02, after accounting for a known selection effect. Simulations suggest that this result could not be an artefact. This suggests the idea of competing drifting subpulses which, if true, will have important ramifications for the growth and breakdown of the particle acceleration zones in pulsars. 
Twenty five years have passed by since models of accretions and jets have separately emerged. Today, it is understood that these two objects are related to each other in a fundamental way. In a binary system, matter from an accretion disk enters into a black hole. A part of it is bounced back because of the centrifugal barrier, radiation pressure or magnetohydrodynamic effects, to form jets and bipolar outflows which carry away excess angular momentum. In the case of AGNs containing black holes, accretion disks form out of stellar winds and similar processes as above form cosmic radio jets. We present a general review of the study of the accretion disks and outflows in a coherent manner, especially emphasizing global inflow-outflow solutions (GIOS). We also present a few observational consequences of wind production from the accretion disks on spectral properties of the accretion disks. 
We have performed high-resolution hydrodynamic simulations of the Lyman-alpha forest in a variety of popular cold dark matter dominated cosmologies, including a low density and a vacuum-dominated model. The fluctuation amplitude of these models is chosen to match the observed abundance of galaxy clusters at low redshift. We assume that the intergalactic medium is photoionized and photoheated by a uniform UV-background with the required amplitude to give the observed mean hydrogen absorption. We produce simulated spectra, analyze them by fitting Voigt profiles and compare line statistics with those obtained from high resolution observations. All models give column density distributions in good agreement with observations. However, the distribution of line widths (the b-parameter distribution) reflects differences in the temperature of the intergalactic medium between the models, with colder models producing more narrow lines. All the models with a low baryon density, Omega_b h^2=0.0125, are too cold to produce a b-parameter distribution in agreement with observations. Models with a higher baryon density, Omega_b h^2=0.025, are hotter and provide better fits. Peculiar velocities contribute significantly to the line widths in models with low matter density, and this improves the agreement with observations further. We briefly discuss alternative mechanisms for reconciling the simulations with the observed b-parameter distributions. 
We investigate the properties of K0V stars with Hipparcos parallaxes and spectral types taken from the Michigan Spectral Survey. The sample of 200 objects allows the empirical investigation of the magnitude selection (Malmquist) bias, which appears clearly present. By selecting those objects that are not affected by bias, we find a mean absolute magnitude of Mv~5.7, a downward revision from 5.9 mag. listed in Schmidt-Kaler (1982). Some objects have absolute magnitudes far brighter than Mv~5.7, and it is suggested that these objects (~20% of the total sample) are K0IV stars which may have been mis-classified as a K0V star. The presence of the Malmquist bias in even this high quality sample suggests that no sample can be expected to be bias-free. 
We present the results of a systematic search for point-like and moderately extended soft (0.1-2.4 keV) X-ray sources in a raster of nine pointings covering a field of 8.95 deg^2 and performed with the ROSAT PSPC between October 1991 and October 1993 in the direction of the Small Magellanic Cloud. We detect 248 objects which we include in the first version of our SMC catalogue of soft X-ray sources. We set up seven source classes defined by selections in the count rate, hardness ratio and source extent. We find five high luminosity super-soft sources (1E 0035.4-7230, 1E 0056.8-7146, RX J0048.4-7332, RX J0058.6-7146 and RX J0103-7254), one low-luminosity super-soft source RX J0059.6-7138 correlating with the planetary nebula L357, 51 candidate hard X-ray binaries including eight bright hard X-ray binary candidates, 19 supernova remnants, 19 candidate foreground stars and 53 candidate background active galactic nuclei (and quasars). We give a likely classification for ~60% of the catalogued sources. The total count rate of the detected point-like and moderately extended sources in our catalogue is 6.9+/-0.3 s^-1, comparable to the background subtracted total rate from the integrated field of ~6.1+/-0.1 s^-1. 
Observations increasingly demonstrate the spatial association of high redshift objects with larger, low redshift galaxies. These companion objects show a continuous range of physical properties - from very compact, high redshift quasars, through smaller active galaxies and finally to only slightly smaller companion galaxies of slightly higher redshift. The shift in energy distribution from high to low makes it clear that are seeing an empirical evolution from newly created to older, more normal galaxies.   In order to account for the evolution of intrinsic redshift we must conclude that matter is initially born with low mass particles whose mass increase with time (age). This requires a physics which is non-local (Machian) and which is therefore more applicable to the cosmos than the Big Bang extrapolation of local physics. Ambartsumian's "superfluid" foresaw some of the properties of the new, low particle mass, protogalactic plasma which is required, demonstrating again the age-old lesson that open minded observation is much more powerful than theoretical assumptions.   Since the ejected plasma, which preferentially emerges along the minor axis of the parent galaxy, develops into an entire galaxy, accretion disks cannot supply sufficient material. New matter must be created within a "white hole" rather than bouncing old matter off a "black hole". 
Why do galactic bars rotate with high pattern speeds, when dynamical friction should rapidly couple the bar to the massive, slowly rotating dark halo? This longstanding paradox may be resolved by considering the dynamical interactions between the galactic disk and structures in the dark halo. Dynamical friction between small-scale halo structure and the disk spins up and flattens the inner halo, thereby quenching the dynamical friction exerted by the halo on the bar; at the same time the halo heats and thickens the disk, perhaps forming a rapidly rotating bulge. Two possible candidates for the required halo structures are massive black holes and tidal streamers from disrupted precursor halos. More generally, gravitational scattering from phase-wrapped inhomogeneities represents a novel relaxation process in stellar systems, intermediate between violent relaxation and two-body relaxation, which can isotropize the distribution function at radii where two-body relaxation is not effective. 
Partially phase-mixed structures in galaxies occupy a complex surface of dimension D in six-dimensional phase space. The appearance of such structures to observers is determined by their projection into a subspace whose dimensionality K is determined by the number of observables (e.g. sky position, distance, radial velocity, etc.). We discuss the expected dimensionality of phase-space structures and suggest that the most prominent features in surveys with K=D or K>D will be stable singularities (catastrophes). The simplest of these are the shells seen in the outer parts of elliptical galaxies. 
Blue horizontal branch and UV bright stars in several globular clusters are analysed spectroscopically and the results are compared with predictions of stellar evolutionary theory. We find that the distribution of temperatures and surface gravities of the blue HB stars may be explained by the effects of deep mixing. The masses derived for these stars are too low unless one uses the long distance scale for globular clusters. First results on blue HB stars in metal rich clusters are presented.   Analyses of hot UV bright stars in globular clusters uncovered a lack of genuine post-asymptotic giant branch stars which may explain the lack of planetary nebulae in globular clusters seen by Jacoby et al. (1997). Abundance analyses of post-AGB stars in two globular clusters suggest that gas and dust may separate during the AGB phase. 
Models that seek to unify BL Lacs and low-power radio galaxies predict that the two types of object should show similar isotropically emitted X-ray emission. Testing this is usually limited by difficulties in separating strong X-ray emission from a BL Lac nucleus and surrounding low-surface brightness emission. In this paper we report ROSAT HRI observations of the z=0.055 BL Lac object PKS 0521-365. We are able to separate a luminous extended X-ray component from the bright nucleus. Using a new radio map, we show that it is unlikely that the extended emission is due to inverse-Compton scattering of photons from the active nucleus, and instead interpret it as thermal emission from dense, rapidly cooling gas. This is a more extreme environment than is found in typical FRI radio galaxies, and may pose a problem for unified models. 
It is shown that in the presence of a background magnetic field within solar interior a cavity for low frequency MHD eigen modes (with periods 1-10 days) near equatorial plane can arise. The lower boundary of the cavity coincides with the centre of the Sun while the upper one corresponds to the Alfven resonant layer where high accumulation of wave energy takes place. The localization and the width of the Alfven resonance layer are determined by: (i) the node number of eigen modes n = 1, 2,..., (ii) by the angle of oblique propagation of waves with respect to the magnetic field, and (iii) by a low magnitude of the background magnetic field itself, B=1-100 G. The amplitude of eigen oscillations in a resonant layer determines the density fluctuation value that is restricted through the imaginary part of eigen frequences. For large node numbers n>>1 there appear many narrow resonant layers where a neutrino propagates through a large density fluctuation \delta\rho/\rho with the oscillation length that is much bigger than the width of a resonant layer. It is shown that neutrino crosses many such bumps on the exponential background profile that motivates to consider these MHD waves as a plausible matter noise for the MSW solution to the Solar Neutrino Problem (SNP). 
We present high resolution MERLIN radio images of multiple relativistic ejections from GRS 1915+105 in 1997 October / November. The observations were made at a time of complex radio behaviour, corresponding to multiple optically-thin outbursts and several days of rapid radio flux oscillations. The radio imaging resolved four major ejection events from the system. As previously reported from earlier VLA observations of the source, we observe apparent superluminal motions resulting from intrinsically relativistic motions of the ejecta. However, our measured proper motions are significantly greater than those observed on larger angular scales with the VLA. Under the assumption of an intrinsically symmetric ejection, we can place an upper limit on the distance to GRS 1915+105 of 11.2 +/- 0.8 kpc. Solutions for the velocities unambiguously require a higher intrinsic speed by about 0.1c than that derived from the earlier VLA observations, whilst the angle to the line-of-sight is not found to be significantly different. At a distance of 11 kpc, we obtain solutions of v = 0.98 (-0.05,+0.02)c and theta = 66 +/- 2 degrees. The jet also appears to be curved on a scale which corresponds to a period of around 7 days. We observe significant evolution of the linear polarisation of the approaching component, with large rotations in position angle and a general decrease in fractional polarisation. The power input into the formation of the jet is very large, >10^38 erg/s at 11 kpc for a pair plasma. If the plasma contains a cold proton for each electron, then the mass outflow rate, >10^18 g/sec is comparable to inflow rates previously derived from X-ray spectral fits. 
Many questions in physical cosmology regarding the thermal and ionization history of the intergalactic medium are now successfully studied with the help of cosmological hydrodynamical simulations. Here we present a numerical method that solves the radiative transfer around point sources within a three dimensional cartesian grid. The method is energy conserving independently of resolution: this ensures the correct propagation speeds of ionization fronts. We describe the details of the algorithm, and compute as first numerical application the ionized region surrounding a mini-quasar in a cosmological density field at z=7. 
While the low dispersion IUE NEWSIPS data products represent a significant improvement over original IUE SIPS data, they still contain serious systematic effects which compromise their utility for certain applications. We show that NEWSIPS low resolution data are internally consistent to only 10-15% at best, with the majority of the problem due to time dependent systematic effects. In addition, the NEWSIPS flux calibration is shown to be inconsistent by nearly 10%.   We examine the origin of these problems and proceed to formulate and apply algorithms to correct them to ~ 3% level -- a factor of 5 improvement in accuracy. Because of the temporal systematics, transforming the corrected data to the IUE flux calibration becomes ambiguous. Therefore, we elect to transform the corrected data onto the HST FOS system. This system is far more self-consistent, and transforming the IUE data to it places data from both telescopes on a single system.   Finally, we argue that much of the remaining 3% systematic effects in the corrected data is traceable to problems with the NEWSIPS intensity transformation function (ITF). The accuracy could probably be doubled by rederiving the ITF. 
The next generation all-sky monitor operating at TeV (0.1 - 30 TeV) energies should be capable of performing a continuous high sensitivity sky survey, and detecting transient sources, such as AGN flares, with high statistical significance on timescales of hours to days. We describe an instrument concept for a large area, wide aperture, TeV ground-based Gamma-ray telescope. The conceptual design is comprised of 20000 sqm scintillator-based pixels arranged in a densely packed mosaic. In addition to fast timing, the dense array of pixels also provides a unique imaging capability; the shower image, the spatial distribution of secondary particles at ground level, can be exploited to identify and reject hadronic backgrounds. The good angular resolution and background rejection capabilities lead directly to high sensitivity, while retaining a large field of view, large effective area, and high duty cycle. An instrument such as the one described here complements the narrow field of view air-Cherenkov telescopes and could, in conjunction with future space-based instruments, extend the energy range for continuous monitoring of the Gamma-ray sky from MeV through TeV energies. 
We show that (1) the newly discovered supernova remnant (SNR), GRO J0852--4642/RX J0852.0--4622, was created by a core-collapse supernova of a massive star, and (2) the same supernova event which produced the $^{44}$Ti detected by COMPTEL from this source is probably also responsible for a large fraction of the observed $^{26}$Al emission in the Vela region detected by the same instrument. The first conclusion is based on the fact that the remnant is currently expanding too slowly given its young age for it to be caused by a Type Ia supernova. If the current SNR shell expansion speed is greater than 3000 km/s, a $15 M_\odot$ Type II supernova with a moderate kinetic energy exploding at about 150 pc away is favored. If the SNR expansion speed is lower than 2000 km s$^{-1}$, as derived naively from the X-ray data, a much more energetic supernova is required to have occurred at $\sim250$ pc away in a dense environment at the edge of the Gum nebula. This progenitor has a preferred ejecta mass of $\le10 M_\odot$ and therefore, it is probably a Type Ib or Type Ic supernova. However, the required high ambient density of $n_H \ge 100 cm^{-3}$ in this scenario is difficult to reconcile with the regional CO data. A combination of our estimates of the age/energetics of the new SNR and the almost perfect positional coincidence of the new SNR with the centroid of the COMPTEL $ ^{26}$Al emission feature of the Vela region strongly favors a causal connection. If confirmed, this will be the first case where both $^{44}$Ti and $^{26}$Al are detected from the same young SNR and together they can be used to select preferred theoretical core-collapse supernova models. 
We consider several protostellar systems where either a precessing jet or at least two misaligned jets have been observed. We assume that the precession of jets is caused by tidal interactions in noncoplanar binary systems. For Cep E, V1331 Cyg and RNO 15-FIR the inferred orbital separations and disk radii are in the range 4-160 AU and 1-80 AU, respectively, consistent with those expected for pre-main sequence stars. Furthermore, we assume or use the fact that the source of misaligned outflows is a binary, and evaluate the lengthscale over which the jets should precess as a result of tidal interactions. For T Tau, HH1 VLA 1/2 and HH 24 SVS63, it may be possible to detect a bending of the jets rather than 'wiggling'. In HH 111 IRS and L1551 IRS5, 'wiggling' may be detected on the current observed scale. Our results are consistent with the existence of noncoplanar binary systems in which tidal interactions induce jets to precess. 
We describe the detailed study and results of high-resolution numerical simulations of string-induced structure formation in open universes and those with a non-zero cosmological constant. The effect from small loops generated from the string network has also been investigated. We provide a semi-analytical model which can reproduce these simulation results. A detailed study of cosmic string network properties regarding structure formation is also given, including the correlation time, the topological analysis of the source spectrum, the correlation between long strings and loops, and the evolution of long-string and loop energy densities. For models with $\Gamma=\Omega h=0.1--0.2 and a cold dark matter background, we show that the linear density fluctuation power spectrum induced by cosmic strings has both an amplitude at $8 h^{-1}$Mpc, $\sigma_8$, and an overall shape which are consistent within uncertainties with those currently inferred from galaxy surveys. The cosmic string scenario with hot dark matter requires a strongly scale-dependent bias in order to agree with observations. 
Using the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) 37 long-period Cepheid variables have been discovered in the Fornax Cluster spiral galaxy NGC 1365. The resulting V and I period-luminosity relations yield a true distance modulus of 31.35 +/- 0.07 mag, which corresponds to a distance of 18.6 +/- 0.6 Mpc. This measurement provides several routes for estimating the Hubble Constant. (1) Assuming this distance for the Fornax Cluster as a whole yields a local Hubble Constant of 70 +/-18_{random} [+/-7]_{systematic} km/s/Mpc. (2) Nine Cepheid-based distances to groups of galaxies out to and including the Fornax and Virgo clusters yield Ho = 73 (+/-16)_r [+/-7]_s km/s/Mpc. (3) Recalibrating the I-band Tully-Fisher relation using NGC 1365 and six nearby spiral galaxies, and applying it to 15 galaxy clusters out to 100 Mpc gives Ho = 76 (+/-3)_r [+/-8]_s km/s/Mpc. (4) Using a broad-based set of differential cluster distance moduli ranging from Fornax to Abell 2147 gives Ho = 72 (+/-)_r [+/-6]_s km/s/Mpc. And finally, (5) Assuming the NGC 1365 distance for the two additional Type Ia supernovae in Fornax and adding them to the SnIa calibration (correcting for light curve shape) gives Ho = 67 (+/-6)_r [+/-7]_s km/s/Mpc out to a distance in excess of 500 Mpc. All five of these Ho determinations agree to within their statistical errors. The resulting estimate of the Hubble Constant combining all these determinations is Ho = 72 (+/-5)_r [+/-12]_s km/s/Mpc. 
We propose a new physical model for the unification of all Blazars. The blazar phenomenology can be accounted for by a sequence in the source power and intensity of the diffuse radiation field surrounding the relativistic jet. This regulates the equilibrium electron distribution and hence the shape of the spectral energy distribution (SED), and in turn the classification into a blazar "flavour". The processes inside and beside the emitting jet are the same throughout the blazar class. Objects along this sequence would be observationally classified as High-frequency-peaked BL Lac objects (HBL), Low-frequency BL Lac objects (LBL), Highly Polarized Quasars (HPQ) and Lowly Polarized Quasars (LPQ). 
We have observed nine QSOs with redshifts 0.85 to 4.16 at near-IR wavelengths with the adaptive optics bonnette of the Canada-France-Hawaii telescope. Exposure times ranged from 1500 to 24000s (mostly near 7000s) in J, H, or K bands, with pixels 0.035 arcsec on the sky. The FWHM of the co-added images at the location of the quasars are typically 0.16 arcsec. Including another QSO published previously, we find associated QSO structure in at least eight of ten objects, including the QSO at z = 4.16. The structures seen in all cases include long faint features which appear to be tidal tails. In four cases we have also resolved the QSO host galaxy, but find them to be smooth and symmetrical: future PSF removal may expand this result. Including one object previously reported, of the nine objects with more extended structure, five are radio-loud, and all but one of these appear to be in a dense small group of compact galaxy companions. The radio-quiet objects do not occupy the same dense environments, as seen in the NIR. In this small sample we do not find any apparent trends of these properties with redshift, over the range 0.8 < z < 2.4. The colors of the host galaxies and companions are consistent with young stellar populations at the QSO redshift. Our observations suggest that adaptive optic observations in the visible region will exhibit luminous signatures of the substantial star-formation activity that must be occurring. 
As part of our multiwavelength campaign of GX 339-4 observations in 1996 we present our radio, X-ray, and gamma-ray observations made in July, when the source was in a hard state (= soft X-ray low state). The radio observations were made at the time when there was a possible radio jet. We show that the radio spectrum was flat and significantly variable, and that the radio spectral shape and amplitude at this time were not anomalous for this source. Daily light curves from our pointed observation July 9-23 using OSSE, from BATSE, and from the ASM on RXTE also show that there was no significant change in the X- and gamma-ray flux or hardness during the time the possible radio jet-like feature was seen. The higher energy portion of our pointed RXTE observation made July 26 can be equally well fit using simple power law times exponential (PLE) and Sunyaev-Titarchuk (ST) functions. An additional soft component is required, as well as a broad emission feature centered on 6.4 keV. This may be an iron line that is broadened by orbital Doppler motions and/or scattering off a hot medium. Its equivalent width is 600 eV. Our simplistic continuum fitting does not require an extra reflection component. Both a PLE and a ST model also fit our OSSE spectrum on its own. Although the observations are not quite simultaneous, combining the RXTE and CGRO spectra we find that the PLE model easily fits the joint spectrum. However, the ST model drops off too rapidly with increasing energies to give an acceptable joint fit. 
As part of our multiwavelength campaign of GX 339-4 observations in 1996 we present the rapid X-ray variability observed July 26 using the RXTE when the source was in a hard state (= soft X-ray low state). We found that the source was extremely variable, with many bright flares. The flares have relatively symmetric time profiles. There are a few time intervals where the flux rises steadily and then drops suddenly, sometimes to a level lower than the average before the increase. Hardness ratios showed that the source was slightly softer when the flux was brighter. The power density spectra (PDS) were also complicated and we found that broken power laws do not provide adequate fits to any of them. Instead a pair of zero-centered Lorentzians gives a good general description of the shape of the PDS. We found several quasi-periodic oscillations (QPO), including some that are harmonically spaced with the most stable frequency at 0.35 Hz. While the overall rms variability of the source was close to being constant throughout the observation (29% integrating between 0.01 and 50 Hz), there is a small but significant change in the PDS shape with time. More importantly, we show that the soft 2-5 keV band is more variable than the harder 5-10 and 10-40 keV bands, which is unusual for this source and for other black hole candidates. Cross correlation functions (CCF) between these bands show that the light curve for the 10-40 keV band lags that of the 2-5 keV band by 5 msec. 
As part of our multiwavelength campaign of observations of GX 339-4 in 1996 we present our Keck spectroscopy performed on May 12 UT. At this time, neither the ASM on the RXTE nor BATSE on the CGRO detected the source. The optical emission was still dominated by the accretion disk with V approximately 17 mag. The dominant emission line is H alpha, and for the first time we are able to resolve a double peaked profile. The peak separation Delta v = 370 +/- 40 km/s. Double peaked H alpha emission lines have been seen in the quiescent optical counterparts of many black hole X-ray novae. However, we find that the peak separation is significantly smaller in GX 339-4, implying that the optical emission comes from a larger radius than in the novae. The H alpha emission line may be more akin to the one in Cygnus X-1, where it is very difficult to determine if the line is intrinsically double peaked because absorption and emission lines from the companion star dominate. 
GX 339-4 is an unusual black hole candidate in that it is a persistent source, being detected by X-ray telescopes most of the time, but it also has nova-like flaring states. In 1996 we performed radio, optical, X-ray, and gamma-ray observations of GX 339-4 when it was in a hard state (= soft X-ray low state). Here we present a brief summary of some of the results. 
We have used polarimetric imaging to study the magneto-ionic medium of the Galaxy, obtaining 1420 MHz images with an angular resolution of 1' over more than 40 square-degrees of sky around the W3/W4/W5/HB3 HII region/SNR complex in the Perseus Arm. Features detected in polarization angle are imposed on the linearly polarized Galactic synchrotron background emission by Faraday rotation arising in foreground ionized gas having an emission measure as low as 1 cm^{-6} pc. Several new remarkable phenomena have been identified, including: mottled polarization arising from random fluctuations in a magneto-ionic screen that we identify with a medium in the Perseus Arm, probably in the vicinity of the HII regions themselves; depolarization arising from very high rotation measures (several times 10^3 rad m^{-2}) and rotation measure gradients due to the dense, turbulent environs of the HII regions; highly ordered features spanning up to several degrees; and an extended influence of the HII regions beyond the boundaries defined by earlier observations. In particular, the effects of an extended, low-density ionized halo around the HII region W4 are evident, probably an example of the extended HII envelopes postulated as the origin of weak recombination-line emission detected from the Galactic ridge. Our polarization observations can be understood if the uniform magnetic field component in this envelope scales with the square-root of electron density and is 20 microG at the edge of the depolarized region around W4, although this is probably an over-estimate since the random field component will have a significant effect. 
We derive abundances and central star parameters for 15 planetary nebulae (PNe) in M31: 12 in the bulge and 3 in a disk field 14 kpc from the nucleus. No single abundance value characterizes the bulge stars: although the median abundances of the sample are similar to those seen for PNe in the LMC, the distribution of abundances is several times broader, spanning over 1 decade. None of the PNe in our sample approach the super metal-rich ([Fe/H] ~ +0.25) expectations for the bulge of M31, although a few PNe in the sample of Stasinska, Richer, & Mc~Call (1998) come close. This [O/H] vs [Fe/H] discrepancy is likely due to a combination of factors, including an inability of metal-rich stars to produce bright PNe, a luminosity selection effect, and an abundance gradient in the bulge of M31. We show that PNe that are near the bright limit of the [OIII] 5007 planetary nebula luminosity function (PNLF) span nearly a decade in oxygen abundance, and thus, support the use of the PNLF for deriving distances to galaxies (Jacoby 1996) with differing metallicities. We also identify a correlation between central star mass and PN dust formation that partially alleviates any dependence of the PNLF maximum magnitude on population age. Additionally, we identify a spatially compact group of 5 PNe having unusually high O/H; this subgroup may arise from a recent merger, but velocity information is needed to assess the true nature of the objects. 
We report simulations of the gas flow in the gravitational potential of the COBE NIR bulge and disk. These models lead to four--armed spiral structure between corotation of the bar and the Sun, in agreement with the observed spiral arm tangents. The 3-kpc-arm is identified with one of the arms emanating from the ends of the bar. 
We report on the status of large surveys of photometrically selected star forming galaxies at z~3 and z~4, with particular emphasis on both the advantages and the limitations of selecting objects using the ``Lyman break'' technique. Current results on the luminosity functions, luminosity densities, color distribution, star formation rates, clustering properties, and the differential evolution of the population as a function of redshift are summarized. 
We present the results of a monitoring campaign aimed at deriving rotation periods for a representative sample of stars in the young (30 Myr) open cluster IC 2602. Rotation periods were derived for 29 of 33 stars monitored. The periods derived range from 0.2d (one of the shortest known rotation periods of any single open cluster star) to about 10d (which is almost twice as long as the longest period previously known for a cluster of this age). We are able to confirm 8 previously known periods and derive 21 new ones, delineating the long period end of the distribution. Despite our sensitivity to longer periods, we do not detect any variables with periods longer than about 10d. The combination of these data with those for IC 2391, an almost identical cluster, leads to the following conclusions:   1) The fast rotators in a 30 Myr cluster are distributed across the entire 0.5 < B-V < 1.6 color range.   2) 6 stars in our sample are slow rotators, with periods longer than 6d.   3) The amplitude of variability depends on both the color and the period. The dependence on the latter might be important in understanding the selection effects in the currently available rotation period database and in planning future observations.   4) The interpretation of these data in terms of theoretical models of rotating stars suggests both that disk-interaction is the norm rather than the exception in young stars and that disk-locking times range from zero to a few Myr. 
We analyze the dependence of circumstellar extinction on core mass for the brightest planetary nebulae (PNe) in the Magellanic Clouds and M31. We show that in all three galaxies, a statistically significant correlation exists between the two quantities, such that high core mass objects have greater extinction. We model this behavior, and show that the relation is a simple consequence of the greater mass loss and faster evolution times of high mass stars. The relation is important because it provides a natural explanation for the invariance of the [O III] 5007 planetary nebula luminosity function (PNLF) with population age: bright Population I PNe are extinguished below the cutoff of the PNLF. It also explains the counter-intuitive observation that intrinsically luminous Population I PNe often appear fainter than PNe from older, low-mass progenitors. 
The evolution of the multipolar structure of the magnetic field of isolated neutron stars is studied assuming the currents to be confined to the crust. We find that except for multipoles of very high order ($l\gsim 25$) the evolution is similar to that of a dipole. Therefore no significant evolution is expected in pulse shape of isolated radio pulsars due to the evolution of the multipole structure of the magnetic field. 
Comet Hale-Bopp was observed five times with ISOPHOT, the photometer on board the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). Each time broadband photometry was performed using 4 different detectors, 5 apertures and, 10 filters covering the range between 3.6 to 175 $\mu$m. Calibration measurements using the internal Fine Calibration Source were done together with each individual measurement. Background observations were performed with identical instrument settings at the same positions on the sky several days after the comet observations. The observation strategy and the initial data reduction steps are described in some detail and the resulting in-band power values of the Hale-Bopp observations and their uncertainties are derived. Initial reduction of these measurements was performed in 3 steps: (1) processing of raw data by removing instrumental and energetic particle effects, (2) averaging of the individual signals, and (3) determination of the detector responsivities and their uncertainties. The detector signal is determined by two different methods and the best value is chosen. At the present level of processing uncertainties range from 10% to a factor of 3 for the low power levels at short wavelengths. The in-band power levels at different wavelengths varied over 3 orders of magnitude. 
Gravitational lenses can provide crucial information on the geometry of the Universe, on the cosmological scenario of formation of its structures as well as on the history of its components with look-back time. In this review, I focus on the most recent results obtained during the last five years from the analysis of the weak lensing regime. The interest of weak lensing as a probe of dark matter and the for study of the coupling between light and mass on scales of clusters of galaxies, large scale structures and galaxies is discussed first. Then I present the impact of weak lensing for the study of distant galaxies and of the population of lensed sources as function of redshift. Finally, I discuss the potential interest of weak lensing to constrain the cosmological parameters, either from pure geometrical effects observed in peculiar lenses, or from the coupling of weak lensing with the CMB. 
We present the analysis of the first two years of a search for microlensing of stars in the Small Magellanic Cloud with the EROS (Exp\'erience de Recherche d'Objets Sombres) project. A single event is detected, already present in the first year analysis. This low event rate allows us to put new constraints on the fraction of the Galactic Halo mass due to compact objects in the mass range [10^-2, 1] Msol. These limits, along with the fact that the two SMC events observed so far are probably due to SMC deflectors, suggest that LMC and SMC self-lensing may dominate the event rate. 
We present high signal-to-noise optical spectra of two luminous super star clusters in the starburst galaxy M82. The data for cluster F and the nearby, highly reddened cluster L were obtained with the William Herschel Telescope (WHT) at a resolution of 1.6A. The blue spectrum (3250-5540A) of cluster F shows features typical of mid-B stars. The red spectra (5730-8790A) of clusters F and L show the Ca II triplet and numerous F and G-type absorption features. Strong Ca II and Na I interstellar absorption lines arising in M82 are also detected, and the 6283A diffuse interstellar band appears to be present. The quality of the WHT spectra allows us to considerably improve previous age estimates for cluster F. By comparing the blue spectrum with theoretical model cluster spectra using the PEGASE spectral synthesis code (Fioc & Rocca-Volmerange 1997), we derive an age of 60+/-20 Myr. The strength of the Ca II triplet is also in accord with this age. Cluster L appears to have a similar age, although this is much less certain. The measured radial velocities for the two clusters differ substantially, indicating that they are located in different regions of the M82 disk. Cluster F appears to be deep in M82, slightly beyond the main starburst region while the highly obscured cluster L lies near the outer edges of the disk. We derive an absolute V magnitude of -16.5 for F indicating that it is an extremely massive cluster. The presence of such a luminous super star cluster suggests that the M82 starburst experienced an episode of intense star formation approximately 60 Myr ago. 
In the cosmological blast-wave model for gamma ray bursts (GRBs), high energy (> 10 GeV) gamma-rays are produced either through Compton scattering of soft photons by ultrarelativistic electrons, or as a consequence of the acceleration of protons to ultrahigh energies. We describe the spectral and temporal characteristics of high energy gamma-rays produced by both mechanisms, and discuss how these processes can be distinguished through observations with low-threshold Cherenkov telescopes or GLAST. We propose that Compton scattering of starlight photons by blast wave electrons can produce delayed flares of GeV -- TeV radiation. 
This paper reports the X-ray spectral analysis of 5 high-redshift (z \ge 2) radio-quiet quasars observed by ASCA. A simple power law continuum plus cold Galactic absorption model well fits all the spectra (tipically between $\sim$ 2-30 keV in the sources frame). Neither the X-ray spectral hardening, attributed to a reflection component and observed in Seyfert galaxies, nor the excess absorption previously detected in high-redshift radio-loud quasars, have been revealed. Only a marginal evidence of a neutral or mildly ionized FeK\alpha line is found in one of the quasars. The average spectral slope in the observed 0.7--10 keV energy range, $<\Gamma> = 1.67 \pm{0.11}$ (dispersion $\sigma \sim 0.07$), appears to be flatter than that of low-z radio-quiet quasars ($\Gamma \simeq 1.9-2$) and slightly steeper, but consistent with $\Gamma$ = 1.61 \pm{0.04} (\sigma \sim 0.10)$ of high-z radio-loud quasars. 
We present sensitive, high resolution observations of neutral hydrogen (HI) in the unusually gas-rich, oval distortion of the Seyfert galaxy NGC4151. The gas dynamics of the oval are found to be consistent with those of a kinematically weak bar, fully confirming previous suggestions for the presence of a fat bar, and, for the first time, individual gaseous features in the bar are spatially resolved. In particular, the two bright regions close to the leading edges of the bar in NGC4151 exhibit kinematics strikingly similar to the signature of bar shocks seen in gas-dynamical simulations, and demonstrate how strong the gaseous response may be even in such a weak bar potential. The residual velocity field, showing deviations from circular motion, is largely consistent with streaming in a bar potential, and, in addition, clearly shows that inflow is concentrated in narrow regions originating in the shocks. This inflow may represent an early stage in the fuelling process of the AGN.   The presence and properties of the shocks in NGC4151 indicate that, in addition to the x_1 orbits, the family of x_2 orbits exist and are of significant extent in the bar of NGC4151, with gas streaming from the shocks making the transition between the two families. We therefore suggest that the circumnuclear ellipse, identified optically by previous authors and associated with gas flowing in x_2 orbits, has formed as a natural consequence of the gas flows in the bar without the requirement for a second, inner bar.   Observations of HI were previously thought to be ill-suited to the study of bar shocks due to limitations in angular resolution and sensitivity. However, our observations show that, following recent instrumental enhancements, such measurements are now feasible, albeit at the limits of instrumental capability. 
We have made radio- and millimeter-wavelength interferometric observations of a variety of molecular absorption lines toward the gravitational lens systems B0218+357 and PKS1830-211. The absorption occurs in the lensing galaxies at redshifts of 0.685 and 0.89, respectively. The high spatial resolution of our VLA and VLBA observations allows imaging of the background continuum emission and the absorption distribution. Our multi-transition studies yield estimates of the cosmic microwave background temperature at z = 0.89 and determinations of molecular and isotopic abundance ratios, which allow meaningful comparisons with Galactic molecular clouds. 
We have searched for redshifted absorption in the 21 cm line of neutral hydrogen toward `red quasars', which are extragalactic radio sources with a steep spectral drop between optical and infrared wavelengths. The success rate for detecting HI 21cm absorption toward a representative sample of such sources is 80%. This compares to the much lower success rate of 11% for detecting HI 21cm absorption associated with optically selected Mg II absorption line systems. The large neutral hydrogen column densities seen toward red quasars supports the hypothesis that these sources are reddened by dust, as opposed to having an intrinsically red spectrum due to the AGN emission mechanism. The lower limits to the spin temperatures for the neutral hydrogen are between 50 K and 1000 K, assuming a Galactic dust-to-gas ratio. We consider the question of biases in optically selected samples of quasars due to dust obscuration. The data on the red quasar sub-sample support the models of Fall and Pei for dust obscuration by damped Ly alpha absorption line systems, and suggest that: (i) there may be a significant, but not dominant, population of quasars missing from optically selected samples due to dust obscuration, perhaps as high as 20% at the POSS limit for an optical sample with a redshift distribution similar to the 1 Jy, flat spectrum quasar sample, and (ii) optically selected samples may miss about half the high column density quasar absorption line systems. 
Here we present timing analysis of a set of eight Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) observations of the black hole candidate GX 339-4 that were taken during its hard/low state. On long time scales, the RXTE All Sky Monitor data reveal evidence of a 240 day periodicity, comparable to timescales expected from warped, precessing accretion disks. On short timescales all observations save one show evidence of a persistent f approximately equal to 0.3 Hz QPO. The broad band (10^{-3}-10^2 Hz) power appears to be dominated by two independent processes that can be modeled as very broad Lorentzians with Q approximately less than 1. The coherence function between soft and hard photon variability shows that if these are truly independent processes, then they are individually coherent, but they are incoherent with one another. This is evidenced by the fact that the coherence function between the hard and soft variability is near unity between 0.005-10 Hz but shows evidence of a dip at f approximately equal to 1 Hz. This is the region of overlap between the broad Lorentzian fits to the PSD. Similar to Cyg X-1, the coherence also drops dramatically at frequencies approximately greater than 10 Hz. Also similar to Cyg X-1, the hard photon variability is seen to lag the soft photon variability with the lag time increasing with decreasing Fourier frequency. The magnitude of this time lag appears to be positively correlated with the flux of GX 339-4. We discuss all of these observations in light of current theoretical models of both black hole spectra and temporal variability. 
We present a simple, semianalytical approach to compute the line emission of C+, C and CO in Photodissociation Regions of varying metallicity that depends on very few parameters and naturally incorporates the clumpiness of the interstellar medium into the calculations. We use it to study the dependence of the I_[C II]/I_CO and I_[C I]/I_CO line ratios on the metallicity. We show how to modify it to include the effects of density and radiation field, and we have compared it with observational data. We find that the model explains the observed trend of enhanced [C II]/CO line ratio with decreasing metallicity as the natural result of the augmented fraction of photodissociated gas in a clump. We show that enhanced [C II]/CO ratios can be produced by lowering the upper limit of the clump size distribution, as may happen in 30 Doradus. We also find that the available data favors a [C I]/CO intensity ratio essentially independent of metallicity, albeit the paucity of observations does not exclude other possibilities. This is difficult to understand if most of the C is produced by UV photons as is the case with C+. Finally, we study the prediction of the model for the trend of the X_CO factor with metallicity. Comparison with previous observational studies yields good agreement. 
We present a set of coupled equations that relate the stellar, gaseous, chemical, and radiation constituents of the universe averaged over the whole galaxy population. Using as input the available data from quasar absorption-line surveys, optical imaging and redshift surveys, and the COBE DIRBE and FIRAS extragalactic infrared background measurements, we obtain solutions for the cosmic histories of stars, interstellar gas, heavy elements, dust, and radiation from stars and dust in galaxies. Our solutions reproduce remarkably well a wide variety of observations that were not used as input, including the integrated background light from galaxy counts, the optical and near-infrared emissivities from galaxy surveys, the local infrared emissivities from the IRAS survey, the mean abundance of heavy elements from surveys of damped Lyman-alpha systems, and the global star formation rates from H$\alpha$ surveys and submillimeter observations. The solutions presented here suggest that the process of galaxy formation appears to have undergone an early period of substantial inflow to assemble interstellar gas at $z\gtrsim3$, a subsequent period of intense star formation and chemical enrichment at $1\lesssim z\lesssim3$, and a recent period of rapid decline in the gas content, star formation rate, optical stellar emissivity, and infrared dust emission at $z\lesssim1$. [abridged version] 
We present sensitive, high angular resolution (6" x 5") 21-cm observations of the neutral hydrogen in the nearby barred Seyfert galaxy, NGC4151. These HI observations, obtained using the VLA in B-configuration, are the highest resolution to date of this galaxy, and reveal hitherto unprecedented detail in the distribution and kinematics of the HI on sub-kiloparsec scales. A complete analysis and discussion of the HI data are presented and the global properties of the galaxy are related to the bar dynamics presented in Paper I. 
In the summer of the year 2000, a NASA Small Explorer satellite, the High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (HESSI), will be launched. It will consist of nine large, coaxial germanium detectors viewing the Sun through a set of Rotation Modulation Collimators and will accomplish high-resolution imaging and spectroscopy of solar flares in the x-ray and gamma-ray bands. Here we describe some of the astrophysical observations HESSI will also perform in addition to its solar mission. 
We explore constraints on the strength of the primordial magnetic field based upon the weak reaction freeze-out in the early universe. We find that limits on the strength of the magnetic field found in other works are recovered simply by examining the temperature at which the rate of weak reactions drops below the rate of universal expansion ($\Gamma_{w} \le$ H). The temperature for which the $n/p$ ratio at freeze-out leads to acceptable helium production implies limits on the magnetic field. This simplifies the application of magnetic fields to other cosmological variants of the standard big-bang. As an illustration we also consider effects of neutrino degeneracy on the allowed limits to the primordial magnetic field. 
Using ASCA observations of several X-ray bursters in the low spectral state Lx~1-5x10^{36} erg/s) restrictions on the parameters of the accretion disk and the boundary layer were obtained. The low state spectra of X-ray bursters observed with ASCA often can be well described by a power law with photon index of 1.7--2.2 and are not consistent with significant contribution of the soft spectral component to the total luminosity. For a blackbody spectrum with temperature of 0.2--2 keV the upper limits correspond to <10--20% of the total 0.5--10 keV luminosity. On the other hand, theoretical calculations predict that in the case of a Keplerian accretion disk around a slowly rotating neutron star (with radius of 3Rg) ~2/3 of the total gravitational energy released in the system can be released in the boundary layer between the inner part of the accretion disk and the neutron star surface.   More accurate analysis of the ASCA spectra shows that:   (1) The inner radius of the standard geometrically thin optically thick part of the accretion disk exceeds $R_{in} > 10-25 R_g$.   (2) The characteristic temperature in the inner part of the accretion flow including the boundary layer exceeds $\sim$2 keV independently upon the assumption about the density in the accretion flow. The electron scattering gives the dominant contribution to the opacity in this region. 
We present the discovery of a candidate substellar object in a survey of young stars in the solar vicinity using the sensitivity and spatial resolution afforded by the NICMOS coronagraph on the Hubble Space Telescope. The H=12.1 mag object was discovered approximately 2 arcsec from the TW Hydrae Association member CoD -33 7795 (TWA 5), and the photometry implies a spectral type M8-M8.5, with a temperature of approximately 2600K. We estimate that the probability of a chance alignment with a background objectof this nature is < 2 X 10^(-5), and therefore postulate the object (TWA 5B) is physically associated at a projected separation of 100 AU. Given the likely youth of the primary (~ 10 Myr), current brown dwarf cooling models predict a mass of approximately 20 Jupiter masses for TWA 5B. 
Imaging in the restframe ultraviolet has proven to be an effective and vital means of tracing dynamical patterns of star formation in galaxies out to high redshifts. Using images from the Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (UIT), Hubble Space Telescope (HST) and complementary groundbased telescopes, we have investigated the starburst activity and associated dynamics in nearby early-type disk galaxies. Concentrating on the starburst-ring (R)SA(r)ab galaxy M94 (NGC 4736), we find compelling evidence for bar-mediated resonances as the primary drivers of evolution at the present epoch. Similar ring-bar dynamics may prevail in the centers of early-type disk galaxies at high redshift. The gravitationally-lensed "Pretzel Galaxy" (0024+1654) at a redshift of ~1.5 provides an important precedent in this regard. 
We report the discovery of five T Tauri star systems, two of which are resolved binaries, in the vicinity of the nearest known region of recent star formation, the TW Hydrae Association. The newly discovered systems display the same signatures of youth (namely high X-ray flux, large Li abundance and strong chromospheric activity) and the same proper motion as the original five members. These similarities firmly establish the group as a bona fide T Tauri association, unique in its proximity to Earth and its complete isolation from any known molecular clouds.   At an age of ~10 Myr and a distance of ~50 pc, the association members are excellent candidates for future studies of circumstellar disk dissipation and the formation of brown dwarfs and planets. Indeed, as an example, our speckle imaging revealed a faint, very likely companion 2" north of CoD-33 7795 (TWA 5). Its color and brightness suggest a spectral type ~M8.5 which, at an age of ~10^7 years, implies a mass ~20 M(Jupiter). 
This paper presents ground-based data obtained from deep optical and infrared observations carried out at the ESO 3.5 New Technology Telescope (NTT) of a field selected for its low HI content for deep observations with AXAF. These data were taken as part of the ESO Imaging Survey (EIS) program, a public survey conducted in preparation for the first year of operation of the VLT. Deep CCD images are available for five optical passbands, reaching 2 sigma limiting magnitudes of U_AB~27.0, B_AB~27, V_AB~26.5, R_AB~26.5 and I_AB~26. An area of ~56 square arcmin is covered by UBVR observations, and ~30 square arcmin also in I. The infrared observations cover a total area of ~83 square arcmin, reaching J_AB~24.5 and K_AB~23.5. This paper describes the observations and data reduction. It also presents images of the surveyed region and lists the optical and infrared photometric parameters of the objects detected on the co-added images of each passband, as well as multicolor optical and infrared catalogs. These catalogs together with the astrometrically and photometrically calibrated co-added images are public and can be retrieved from the URL http://www.eso.org/eis/ . This data set completes the ESO Imaging Survey program sixteen months after it began in July 1997. 
All stars exhibit universal central behavior in terms of new homology variables (u,w). In terms of these variables, we obtain simple analytic fits to numerical standard solar models for the core and radiative zones of the ZAMS and present Suns, with a few global parameters. With these analytic fits, different theoretical models of the solar core, neutrino fluxes, and helioseismic observations can be parametrized and compared. 
We present evolutionary sequences for Jupiter and Saturn, based on new nongray model atmospheres, which take into account the evolution of the solar luminosity and partitioning of dense components to deeper layers. The results are used to set limits on the extent to which possible interior phase separation of hydrogen and helium may have progressed in the two planets. When combined with static models constrained by the gravity field, our evolutionary calculations constrain the helium mass fraction in Jupiter to be between 0.20 and 0.27, relative to total hydrogen and helium. This is in agreement with the Galileo determination. The helium mass fraction in Saturn's atmosphere lies between 0.11 and 0.25, higher than the Voyager determination. Based on the discrepancy between the Galileo and Voyager results for Jupiter, and our models, we predict that Cassini measurements will yield a higher atmospheric helium mass fraction for Saturn relative to the Voyager value. 
In this paper, we present three qualitatively different scenarios for bulge formation: a secular evolution model in which bulges form after disks and undergo several central starbursts, a primordial collapse model in which bulges and disks form simultaneously, and an early bulge formation model in which bulges form prior to disks. We normalize our models to the local z=0 observations of de Jong & van der Kruit (1994) and Peletier & Balcells (1996) and make comparisons with high redshift observations. We consider model predictions relating directly to bulge-to-disk properties. As expected, smaller bulge-to-disk ratios and bluer bulge colors are predicted by the secular evolution model at all redshifts, although uncertainties in the data are currently too large to differentiate strongly between the models. 
We compute spectral energy distributions (SEDs) for passive T Tauri disks viewed at arbitrary inclinations. Semi-analytic models of disks in radiative and hydrostatic equilibrium are employed. Over viewing angles for which the flared disk does not occult the central star, the SED varies negligibly with inclination. For such aspects, the SED shortward of ~80 microns is particularly insensitive to orientation, since short wavelength disk emission is dominated by superheated surface layers which are optically thin. The SED of a nearly edge-on disk is that of a class I source. The outer disk occults inner disk regions, and emission shortward of ~30 microns is dramatically extinguished. Spectral features from dust grains may appear in absorption. However, millimeter wavelength fluxes decrease by at most a factor of 2 from face-on to edge-on orientations.   We present illustrative applications of our SED models. The class I source 04108+2803B is considered a T Tauri star hidden from view by an inclined circumstellar disk. Fits to its observed SED yield model-dependent values for the disk mass of ~0.015 solar masses and a disk inclination of ~65 degrees relative to face-on. The class II source GM Aur represents a T Tauri star unobscured by its circumstellar disk. Fitted parameters include a disk mass of \~0.050 solar masses and an inclination of ~60 degrees. 
I discuss the properties of a population of candidate cluster galaxies recently identified in the fields of radio-loud quasars at z=1--2. The magnitude, spatial, and color distributions of the excess galaxies in these fields are consistent with the quasars residing in moderately rich galaxy overdensities dominated by early-type galaxies.   The broadband SEDs of very red galaxies in several fields suggest that there is considerable dispersion in the properties of early-type galaxies in these clusters at z~1.5. Most excess galaxies are best fit as 2--3 Gyr old ellipticals, but some are either 4--5 Gyr old or considerably more metal-rich, and others must be extremely dusty. The latter are part of a ``J-band dropout'' population which includes a number of galaxies in one field which are probably at z~2.5, background to the quasar.   Finally, I discuss narrowband redshifted H-alpha imaging in two fields which has yielded at least one detection. At z>1.3 cluster galaxy star formation rates can be measured from H-alpha in the near-IR, rest-frame 1500-Angstrom light in the optical, and eventually rest-frame far-IR emission using SCUBA, to help determine the star formation histories of cluster galaxies as function of redshift. 
High-resolution, 1.10, 2.05, 2.12, and 2.15 micron imaging of the gravitationally lensed system FSC10214+4724 are presented. These data extend HST observations of the lens system to redder wavelengths, thus providing the highest resolution images to date of the rest-frame optical and narrow-line (i.e., H-alpha+[N II]) regions of the background quasar. The length of the arc in the wide-band continuum images increases with increasing wavelength, and the H-alpha+[N II] emission has a length in between that of the 1.10 and 2.05 microns. The structure of the arc changes from having an eastern and western peak at 1.10 microns to a single peak in the center at 2.05 microns. The changing structure and length of the arc can be understood in terms of a model where the background quasar consists of a region of scattered AGN light that dominates at 1.10 microns (rest-frame 3300 angstroms), surrounded by a more extended narrow-line region. An even more extended red stellar population would thus contribute light at 2.05 microns... 
We present an improved POTENT method for reconstructing the velocity and mass density fields from radial peculiar velocities, test it with mock catalogs, and apply it to the Mark III Catalog. Method improvments: (a) inhomogeneous Malmquist bias is reduced by grouping and corrected in forward or inverse analyses of inferred distances, (b) the smoothing into a radial velocity field is optimized to reduce window and sampling biases, (c) the density is derived from the velocity using an improved nonlinear approximation, and (d) the computational errors are made negligible. The method is tested and optimized using mock catalogs based on an N-body simulation that mimics our cosmological neighborhood, and the remaining errors are evaluated quantitatively. The Mark III catalog, with ~3300 grouped galaxies, allows a reliable reconstruction with fixed Gaussian smoothing of 10-12 Mpc/h out to ~60 Mpc/h. We present maps of the 3D velocity and mass-density fields and the corresponding errors. The typical systematic and random errors in the density fluctuations inside 40 Mpc/h are \pm 0.13 and \pm 0.18. The recovered mass distribution resembles in its gross features the galaxy distribution in redshift surveys and the mass distribution in a similar POTENT analysis of a complementary velocity catalog (SFI), including the Great Attractor, Perseus-Pisces, and the void in between. The reconstruction inside ~40 Mpc/h is not affected much by a revised calibration of the distance indicators (VM2, tailored to match the velocities from the IRAS 1.2Jy redshift survey). The bulk velocity within the sphere of radius 50 Mpc/h about the Local Group is V_50=370 \pm 110 km/s (including systematic errors), and is shown to be mostly generated by external mass fluctuations. With the VM2 calibration, V_50 is reduced to 305 \pm 110 km/s. 
The interaction of a massive binary and a non-self-gravitating circumbinary accretion disc is considered. The shape of the stationary twisted disc produced by the binary is calculated. It is shown that the inner part of the disc must lie in the binary orbital plane for any value of viscosity.   When the inner disc midplane is aligned with the binary orbital plane on the scales of interest and it rotates in the same sense as the binary, the modification of the disc structure and the rate of decay of the binary orbit, assumed circular, due to tidal exchange of angular momentum with the disc, are calculated. It is shown that the modified disc structure is well described by a self-similar solution of the non-linear diffusion equation governing the evolution of the disc surface density. The calculated time scale for decay of the binary orbit is always smaller than the "accretion" time $t_{acc}=m/{\dot M}$ ($m$ is the mass of the secondary component, and $\dot M$ is the disc accretion rate), and is determined by ratio of secondary mass $m$, assumed to be much smaller than the primary mass, the disc mass inside the initial binary orbit, and the form of viscosity in the disc. 
1057 globular cluster candidates have been identified in a WFPC2 image of the inner region of M87. The Globular Cluster Luminosity Function (GCLF) can be well fit by a Gaussian profile with a mean value of m_V^0=23.67 +/- 0.07 mag and sigma=1.39 +/- 0.06 mag (compared to m_V^0=23.74 mag and sigma=1.44 mag from an earlier study using the same data by Whitmore it et al. 1995). The GCLF in five radial bins is found to be statistically the same at all points, showing no clear evidence of dynamical destruction processes based on the luminosity function (LF), in contradiction to the claim by Gnedin (1997). Similarly, there is no obvious correlation between the half light radius of the clusters and the galactocentric distance. The core radius of the globular cluster density distribution is R_c=56'', considerably larger than the core of the stellar component (R_c=6.8''). The mean color of the cluster candidates is V-I=1.09 mag which corresponds to an average metallicity of Fe/H = -0.74 dex. The color distribution is bimodal everywhere, with a blue peak at V-I=0.95 mag and a red peak at V-I=1.20 mag. The red population is only 0.1 magnitude bluer than the underlying galaxy, indicating that these clusters formed late in the metal enrichment history of the galaxy and were possibly created in a burst of star/cluster formation 3-6 Gyr after the blue population. We also find that both the red and the blue cluster distributions have a more elliptical shape (Hubble type E3.5) than the nearly spherical galaxy. The average half light radius of the clusters is ~2.5 pc which is comparable to the 3 pc average effective radius of the Milky Way clusters, though the red candidates are ~20% smaller than the blue ones. 
The shape of the primordial fluctuation spectrum is probed by cosmic microwave background fluctuations which measure density fluctuations at z~1000 on scales of hundreds of Mpc and from galaxy redshift surveys, which measure structure at low redshift out to several hundred Mpc. The currently acceptable library of cosmological models is inadequate to account for the current data, and more exotic models must be sought. New data sets such as SDSS and 2DF are urgently needed to verify whether the shape discrepancies in P(k) will persist. 
The re-analysis of the data reported by Mateo et al. (1998) allowed us to obtain a partially different set of frequencies for the 20 short period variable stars discovered in the Carina dSph galaxy. They are subdivided into 6 overtone-pulsators, 13 fundamental-pulsators; 1 case remains uncertain. The analysis of the light curves was conducted star by star and the first Fourier parameters were obtained for 17 variables. No clear separation between pulsation modes is discernible in the F21-P plot, but the very narrow range of the observed periods hampered us to consider that statement as a definitive one. A more extensive observational study is recommended, since a preliminary comparison with galactic variable stars displays small differences in the F21 values. Owing to the high standard deviation of the fit, the possibility that some stars are double-mode pulsators is also suggested. 
The recent Cherenkov telescope observations and detections of the BL Lac objects Mkn 421, Mkn 501, 1ES 2344+514, PKS 2155--304 and possibly 1ES 1959+658 have shown that there exists a subclass of BL Lac objects emitting a substantial fraction of their power between the GeV and the TeV bands. These are the sources whose synchrotron spectrum peaks, in a $\nu$--$\nu F_{\nu}$ representation, in the EUV or X-ray band. Here I suggest that even more extreme BL Lacs can exist, whose synchrotron spectrum peaks in the MeV band. These sources should emit a substantial fraction of their power in the TeV band by the inverse Compton process. Limits to the maximum possible emitted frequencies are discussed. 
Moments of the BBGKY equations for spatial correlation functions of cosmological density perturbations are used to obtain a differential equation for the evolution of the dimensionless function, $h = - ({v/{\dot{a}x}})$, where $v$ is the mean relative pair velocity. The BBGKY equations are closed using a hierarchical scaling ansatz for the 3-point correlation function. Scale-invariant solutions derived earlier by Davis and Peebles are then used in the non-linear regime, along with the generalised stable clustering hypothesis ($h \to $ const.), to obtain an expression for the asymptotic value of $h$, in terms of the power law index of clustering, $\gamma$,and the tangential and radial velocity dispersions. The Davis-Peebles solution is found to require that tangential dispersions are larger than radial ones, in the non-linear regime; this can be understood on physical grounds. Finally, stability analysis of the solution demonstrates that the allowed asymptotic values of $h$, consistent with the stable clustering hypothesis, lie in the range $0 \leq h \leq 1/2$. Thus, if the Davis-Peebles scale-invariant solution (and the hierarchical model for the 3-pt function) is correct, the standard stable clustering picture ($h \to 1$ as $\bar\xi \to \infty$) is not allowed in the non-linear regime of structure formation. 
We investigate the dynamics of the recently proposed model of assisted inflation. In this model an arbitrary number of scalar fields with exponential potentials evolve towards an inflationary scaling solution, even if each of the individual potentials is too steep to support inflation on its own. By choosing an appropriate rotation in field space we can write down explicitly the potential for the weighted mean field along the scaling solution and for fields orthogonal to it. This demonstrates that the potential has a global minimum along the scaling solution. We show that the potential close to this attractor in the rotated field space is analogous to a hybrid inflation model, but with the vacuum energy having an exponential dependence upon a dilaton field. We present analytic solutions describing homogeneous and inhomogeneous perturbations about the attractor solution without resorting to slow-roll approximations. We discuss the curvature and isocurvature perturbation spectra produced from vacuum fluctuations during assisted inflation. 
A substantial population of high redshift early-type galaxies is detected in very deep UBVRIJHK images towards the HDF-South. Four elliptical profile galaxies are identified in the redshift range z=1-2, all with very red SEDs, implying ages of >2 Gyrs for standard passive evolution. We also find later type IR-luminous galaxies at similarly high redshift, (10 objects with z>1, H<25), whose weak UV emission implies single burst ages of >1 Gyr. The number and luminosity-densities of these galaxies are comparable with the local E/SO-Sbc populations for \Omega_m>0.2, and in the absence of a significant cosmological constant, we infer that the major fraction of luminous Hubble-sequence galaxies have evolved little since z~2. A highly complete photometric redshift distribution is constructed to H=25 (69 galaxies) showing a broad spread of redshift, peaking at z~1.5, in reasonable agreement with some analyses of the HDF. Five `dropout' galaxies are detected at z~3.8, which are compact in the IR, ~0.5 kpc/h at rest 3500\AA. No example of a blue IR luminous elliptical is found, restricting the star-formation epoch of ellipticals to z>10 for a standard IMF and modest extinction. 
We model galaxy evolution in the 6.75 and 15 micron passbands of the ISO satellite, by combining models of galaxy evolution at optical wavelengths (which are consistent with the optical galaxy counts) with observed spectral energy distributions in the infra-red. Our model is consistent with the local 12 micron galaxy luminosity, if 3.5 per cent of spirals at z=0 are in interacting pairs with mid-infra-red luminosities enhanced by major starbursts. Source counts from deep ISO surveys exceed non-evolving predictions but are more consistent with our evolving model. The steep number count of 6.75 micron sources appears to be explained primarily by evolving early-type galaxies, whereas at 15 microns the main contributors are star-forming spirals and starbursting interacting/merging galaxies. The 31 per cent of 15 micron sources which are visibly interacting galaxies have high mid-infra-red/optical flux ratios indicating major starbursts combined with dust extinction. The numbers and high mean redshift of these sources suggest the merger-starbursts are increasing in luminosity with redshift, approximately as (1+z)^2, in addition to undergoing (1+z)^2 number evolution reflecting the optically observed increase with redshift in the fraction of interacting galaxies. 
Integrated ground-based and HST optical studies of isolated neutron stars have provided important independent datasets in the determination of emission activity, particularly in the fitting of anticipated Rayleigh-Jeans extrapolations from EUV/soft X-ray datasets, despite their intrinsic faintness. Differentiation of the pulsed and unpulsed fluxes and consequently of the nonthermal and thermal modes of emission could provide definitive data with which to constrain this blackbody continuum. Based upon high speed photometric observations of Geminga and PSR B0656+14 in the B band, we have combined upper limits of unpulsed emission with recently published model-fits with a view to assessing possible implications for the R/d parameter. For Geminga, with a known distance of ~ 160 pc, we find that R_{infty} < 9.5 km for a ~ blackbody source, and R_{\infty} < 10.0 km with the presence of a magnetized H atmosphere. In addition, we suggest that PSR B0656+14 is some ~ 4 - 5 times closer than the 760 pc estimated from DM measurements alone. 
Using the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer we have measured lags of the 9 to 33 keV photons relative to the 2 to 9 keV photons in the timing noise between 0.01 and 100 Hz in the accreting neutron stars 4U 0614+091 and 4U 1705-44. We performed similar measurements on the accreting black hole candidates Cyg X-1 and GX 339-4 as a comparison. During the observations these sources were all in low (hard) states. We find phase lags of between 0.03 and 0.2 radians in all these sources, with a variation in frequency much less than expected for a lag constant in time. We also measure a coherence consistent with unity in all sources. As already noted for the black hole candidates, these data are inconsistent with simple Comptonization models invoking a constant time delay. Comptonization in a non-uniform medium can perhaps explain the lags. However, the magnitudes of the lags imply that the hot electron gas extends to more than 1000 Schwarzschild radii. This may constitute an energy problem. We argue that while a large hot cloud is possible for black holes which may hide some of their accretion energy in advection, such a distribution may not be possible neutron stars where all the accretion energy is eventually released at the neutron star surface. This casts doubt on the Comptonization model, though the energy problem may be resolved for example by a wind from the inner disk. 
The huge luminosity of quasars and "twin''images of them could be explained using filamentary or planar cosmological structures acting as waveguides. We describe the gravitational waveguide theory and then we discuss possible realizations in cosmology. 
We report on a joint RXTE and ASCA observation spanning $\sim$ 400~ks of the Seyfert 1 galaxy MCG--6-30-15. The low energy coverage of ASCA coupled with the high energy coverage of RXTE have allowed us not only to confirm features of Compton reflection but also to set bounds on the abundances as a function of reflective fraction. 
Some particle candidates for dark matter are reviewed in the light of recent experimental and theoretical developments. Models for massive neutrinos are discussed in the light of the recent atmospheric-neutrino data, and used to motivate comments on the plausibility of different solutions to the solar neutrino problem. Arguments are given that the lightest supersymmetric particle should be a neutralino \chi, and accelerator and astrophysical constraints used to suggest that 50 GeV \lappeq m_\chi \lappeq 600 GeV. Minimizing the fine tuning of the gauge hierarchy favours \Omega_\chi h^2 \sim 0.1. The possibility of superheavy relic particles is mentioned, and candidates from string and $M$ theory are reviewed. Finally, the possibility of non-zero vacuum energy is discussed: its calculation is a great opportunity for a quantum theory of gravity, and the possibility that it is time dependent should not be forgotten. 
For a subclass of polar-cap models based on electromagnetic cascades induced by curvature radiation (CR) we calculate broad-band high-energy spectra of pulsed emission expected for classical and millisecond pulsars. The spectra are a combination of curvature and synchrotron components. The spectrum of curvature component breaks at 150MeV, and neither its slope nor level below this energy are compatible with phase-averaged spectra of pulsed X-ray emission inferred from observations. Spectral properties in the combined energy range of ROSAT and ASCA (0.1 - 10 keV) depend upon the location of cyclotron turnover energy epsilon_ct=\hbar{e B \over m_e c} /sin(psi) in the synchrotron component. Unlike in outer-gap models, the available range of pitch angles psi is rather narrow and confined to low values. For classical pulsars, a gradual turnover begins already at 1MeV, and the level of the synchrotron spectrum decreases. At 10keV the curvature component eventually takes over, but with photon index alpha = 2/3, in disagreement with observations. For millisecond pulsars, the X-ray spectra are dominated by synchrotron component with alpha \simeq 1.5, and a sharp turnover into alpha \simeq -1 at epsilon_ct \sim 100eV. Relations of pulsed luminosity L_X to spin-down luminosity \edot are presented for classical and millisecond pulsars. We conclude that spectral properties and fluxes of pulsed non-thermal X-ray emission of some objects, like the Crab or the millisecond pulsar B1821-24, pose a challenge to the subclass of polar-cap models based on curvature and synchrotron radiation alone. 
We set up a model for the evolution of the galaxy luminosity function, taking advantage of recent work that brought in some better understanding of the mass function for gravitationally condensed objects. The physics of cooling of the baryonic component allows us to distinguish halos that become groups or clusters from those that eventually form galaxies (possibly within the former objects). With our new mass function and our new application of the cooling criteria - which motivated this paper - we get a satisfactory and natural cutoff at the bright end of the luminosity function, the needed flat slope for faint magnitudes and the correct trend in colors (brighter galaxies are redder ) within the framework of the hierarchical clustering picture. This infirms earlier claims that the latter was inadequate to reproduce the former observations. We find the velocity dispersion to be a much better parameter than mass or radius to characterize galaxies. We find that bright galaxies form at z~2 from mergers with a rather quiet evolution afterwards, whereas small galaxies are the result of a continuous merging process active up to the present epoch. The transition is found to occur at the observed transition between bright spirals and small dwarf ellipticals or irregulars. The quasar multiplicity as a function of redshift is also discussed. 
We investigate the consequences of a non-negligible baryon fraction for models of structure formation in Cold Dark Matter dominated cosmologies, emphasizing in particular the existence of oscillations in the present-day matter power spectrum. These oscillations are the remnants of acoustic oscillations in the photon-baryon fluid before last scattering. For acceptable values of the cosmological and baryon densities, the oscillations modulate the power by up to 10%, with a `period' in spatial wavenumber which is close to Delta k approximately 0.05/ Mpc. We study the effects of nonlinear evolution on these features, and show that they are erased for k > 0.2 h/ Mpc. At larger scales, the features evolve as expected from second-order perturbation theory: the visibility of the oscillations is affected only weakly by nonlinear evolution. No realistic CDM parameter combination is able to account for the claimed feature near k = 0.1 h/ Mpc in the APM power spectrum, or the excess power at 100 Mpc/h wavelengths quoted by several recent surveys. Thus baryonic oscillations are not predicted to dominate existing measurements of clustering. We examine several effects which may mask the features which are predicted, and conclude that future galaxy surveys may be able to detect the oscillatory features in the power spectrum provided baryons comprise more than 15% of the total density, but that it will be a technically challenging achievement. 
We find a very strong correlation between the intrinsic spectral slope in X-rays and the amount of Compton reflection from a cold medium in Seyfert AGNs and in hard state of X-ray binaries with either black holes or weakly-magnetized neutron stars. Objects with soft intrinsic spectra show much stronger reflection than ones with hard spectra. We find that at a given spectral slope, black-hole binaries have similar or more reflection than Seyferts whereas neutron-star binaries in our sample have reflection consistent with that in Seyferts. The existence of the correlation implies a dominant role of the reflecting medium as a source of seed soft photons for thermal Comptonization in the primary X-ray source. 
The heavy elements near QSOs provide unique measures of the star formation and chemical evolution in young galactic nuclei or pre-galactic condensations. Studies of quasar abundances also naturally address a variety of questions regarding the physics of QSO environments, including the Baldwin Effect emphasized at this meeting. Here I review the status of quasar abundance work. 
This paper concludes a series of three papers presenting ROSAT High-Resolution Imager (HRI) observations of unidentified Einstein and serendipitous ROSAT X-ray sources in the direction of the Magellanic Clouds. Accurate positions and fluxes have been measured for these sources. Optical photometry and spectroscopy were obtained to search for identifications in order to determine the physical nature of these sources. The present paper includes new data for 24 objects; identifications are given or confirmed for 30 sources. For six sources optical finding charts showing the X-ray positions are provided. The results from this program are summarized, showing the populations of luminous X-ray sources in the Magellanic Clouds are quite different from those in the Galaxy. 
We detect a distant cluster of galaxies centered on the QSO lens and luminous X-ray source AXJ2019+112, a.k.a. ``The Dark Cluster'' (Hattori et al 1997). Using deep V,I Keck images and wide-field K_s imaging from the NTT, a tight red sequence of galaxies is identified within a radius of 0.2 h^{-1} Mpc of the known z=1.01 elliptical lensing galaxy. The sequence, which includes the central elliptical galaxy, has a slope in good agreement with the model predictions of Kodama et al (1998) for z~1. We estimate the integrated rest-frame luminosity of the cluster to be L_V > 3.2 x 10^{11}h^{-2}L_{\sun} (after accounting for significant extinction at the low latitude of this field), more than an order of magnitude higher than previous estimates. The central region of the cluster is deconvolved using the technique of Magain, Courbin & Sohy (1998), revealing a thick central arc coincident with an extended radio source. All the observed lensing features are readily explained by differential magnification of a radio loud AGN by a shallow elliptical potential. The QSO must lie just outside the diamond caustic, producing two images, and the arc is a highly magnified image formed from a region close to the center of the host galaxy, projecting inside the caustic. The mass--to--light ratio within an aperture of 0.4 h ^{-1} Mpc is M_x/L_V= 224^{+112}_{-78}h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, using the X-ray temperature. The strong lens model yields a compatible value, M/L_V= 372^{+94}_{-94}h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, whereas an independent weak lensing analysis sets an upper limit of M/L_V <520 h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, typical of massive clusters. 
In this letter we examine the role of the first supernovae in proto-galaxies, their role in feedback and the consequences for disk assembly. Extending the picture proposed by Dekel & Silk (1986), we argue that energetic supernovae winds can expel baryons from all proto-galaxies with varying degrees of efficiency. The fraction of baryons retained and hence available to assemble into the baryonic disk is therefore, a function of the central velocity dispersion of the halo. Such a coupling of the baryonic component to the dark halo leads to the following interesting consequence, a prediction for a weak scaling of the zero-point of the Tully-Fisher relation or alternatively, the mass-to-light ratio with the central velocity dispersion of the halo. On applying to the case of the Milky Way halo, this feedback mechanism implies: (i) that the Milky Way halo lost approximately 10% of its original gas content; (ii) a range in the inferred redshift of formation $z_f$, and the local baryon fraction $f_b$ for the Milky Way that depends on the initial spin parameter of the halo. We find that for a low spin halo - $z_f < 1$, $f_b \sim 2%$; for a median spin halo - $z_f \sim 1 - 2.5$, $f_b \sim 5%$; and for a high spin halo - $z_f \sim 4 - 8$, $f_b \sim 20%$. The observationally determined ages for the oldest disk stars in the Milky Way seem to rule out a low value for the spin parameter. Given the shape of the spin distribution of halos obtained in N-body simulations, while a high value of the spin parameter is not very probable, it is interesting to note that if this is indeed the case for the Milky Way halo, then feedback processes can cause the local baryon fraction to differ significantly from the universal value. 
We study the response of the structure of an asymptotic giant branch (AGB) star to the accretion of a brown dwarf or planet in its interior. In particular, we examine the case in which the brown dwarf spirals-in, and the accreted matter is deposited at the base of the convective envelope and in the thin radiative shell surrounding the hydrogen burning shell. In our spherically symmetric simulations, we explore the effects of different accretion rates and we follow two scenarios in which the amounts of injected mass are equal to $\sim 0.01$ and $\sim 0.1 M_\odot$. The calculations show that for high accretion rates ($\dot M_{acc} = 10^{-4} M_\odot yr^{-1}$), the considerable release of accretion energy produces a substantial expansion of the star and gives rise to hot bottom burning at the base of the convective envelope. For somewhat lower accretion rates ($\dot M_{acc} = 10^{-5} M_\odot yr^{-1}$), the accretion luminosity represents only a small fraction of the stellar luminosity, and as a result of the increase in mass (and concomitantly of the gravitational force), the star contracts. Our simulations also indicate that the triggering of thermal pulses is delayed (accelerated) if mass is injected at a slower (faster) rate. We analyze the effects of this accretion process on the surface chemical abundances and show that chemical modifications are mainly the result of deposition of fresh material rather than of active nucleosynthesis. Finally, we suggest that the accretion of brown dwarfs and planets can induce the ejection of shells around giant stars, increase their surface lithium abundance and lead to significant spin-up. The combination of these features is frequently observed among G and K giant stars. 
If primordial fluctuation is Gaussian distributed, higher-order cumulants of the cosmic fields reflect nonlinear mode coupling and provide useful information of gravitational instability picture of structure formation. We show that their expected deviation (sample variance) from the universal values is nonvanishing even in linear theory in the case where observed volume is finite. As a result, we find that the relative sample variance of the skewness of the smoothed velocity divergence field remains as large as $\sim 30%$ even if the survey depth is as deep as $\sim 150h^{1}Mpc$. 
It has recently been argued that single-collapse high-redshift models for elliptical galaxy formation can be rejected because they predict large numbers of very red galaxies at intermediate redshifts which are not seen in deep optical-infrared surveys. We argue, however, that this conclusion is premature since, while much effort has been invested in refining the predictions of hierarchical CDM models, only very simplistic models have been used to study the evolution of galaxies in other cosmogonies (e.g. isocurvature models). We demonstrate that the use of a more realistic multi-zone chemo-dynamical single-collapse model, yields colours at intermediate redshifts which are much bluer than inferred from the one-zone model, and indeed are comparable to those predicted by hierarchical merging despite still allowing $> 90%$ of the final stellar mass of elliptical galaxies to be formed in the first Gyr of their evolution. We, therefore, conclude that the one-zone model should be avoided to predict the colours of high-redshift galaxies and that the use of realistic multi-zone models allows the existence of ellipticals at high redshift, being their dismissal premature. 
Due to the invention of new powerful instruments in the recent past (e.g. 10m class telescopes) high redshift galaxies are no longer a curiosity. High redshift young star forming galaxies can be effectively discriminated from the much more abundant foreground galaxies by their special spectral properties: a prominent break at the Lyman limit (i.e. a complete absence of flux at wavelength below the Lyman limit), an intrinsically flat spectrum at wavelength long-ward of the Lyman limit and in the very early phase of evolution a strong Ly-alpha emission line with high equivalent width. In the last couple of years several hundred star forming galaxies with 2.5 < z < 3.5 could be identified using deep broad band images which identify the Lyman break (Steidel et al. 1996, 1998). Spectroscopic followup observations confirmed their high redshifts. I summarize the main properties of these Lyman break galaxies (LBGs). Furthermore, the very recent discoveries of very high-z strong Ly-alpha emitting galaxies at z>5 and new large systematic surveys (the Calar Alto Deep Imaging Survey and the survey of Hu et al. 1998) for such objects, suggest that the cosmic star formation rate in strong Ly-alpha emitters does not decrease at redshifts z > 3.5 as suggested for the Lyman break galaxy sample. I discuss the galaxies with the highest redshifts we know today and give an overview over the survey of Hu et al. and the Calar Alto Deep Imaging Survey. 
Infrared Imaging Surveyor (IRIS) is a satellite which will be launched in the beginning of 2003. One of the main purposes of the IRIS mission is an all-sky survey at far-infrared (FIR) with a flux limit much deeper than that of IRAS. In order to examine the performance of the survey, we estimated the FIR galaxy counts in four (50, 70, 120, and 150 $\mu$m) bands based on some models. We adopted a multicomponent model which consists of cirrus and starburst components for galaxy spectra, and the nearby FIR luminosity function derived from that of IRAS galaxies. We derived the number counts, redshift distributions, and infrared diffuse background radiation spectra for i) no evolution, ii) pure luminosity evolution, iii) pure density evolution with $q_0 = 0.1$ and 0.5. We found that a large number of galaxies ($\sim {\rm a few} \times 10^6$ in the whole sky) will be detected in this survey. With the aid of a vast number of detection, we will detect the effect of galaxy evolution, and evaluate the amplitude of evolution at least in the nearby universe in the IRIS survey, though it will be still difficult to constrain which type of evolution takes place from the number count alone. We also studied the estimation of redshifts of detected galaxies by their infrared colors alone. Although significant contamination takes place among nearby faint galaxies and high-$z$ ones, we found that rough estimation of galaxy redshift can be practicable by jointly using present and future optical surveys. 
A sort of gravitational waveguide effect in cosmology could explain some anomalous phenomena which cannot be understood by the current gravitational lensing models as the existence of "twins" objects with similar spectra and redshifts posed on the sky with large angular distance. Furthermore, the huge luminosities of quasars could be explained using filamentary or planar cosmological structures acting as waveguides. We describe the gravitational waveguide theory and then we discuss possible realizations in cosmology. 
We perform a combined likelihood analysis of the latest cosmic microwave background anisotropy data and distant Type 1a Supernova data of Perlmutter etal (1998a). Our analysis is restricted to cosmological models where structure forms from adiabatic initial fluctuations characterised by a power-law spectrum with negligible tensor component. Marginalizing over other parameters, our best fit solution gives Omega_m = 0.25 (+0.18, -0.12) and Omega_Lambda = 0.63 (+0.17, -0.23) (95 % confidence errors) for the cosmic densities contributed by matter and a cosmological constant respectively. The results therefore strongly favour a nearly spatially flat Universe with a non-zero cosmological constant. 
We describe a new, deep photographic survey of the Virgo Cluster which uses multiple exposures on Tech Pan film with the United Kingdom Schmidt Telescope to probe the dwarf population to fainter surface brightness limits than previous surveys. We have identified galaxies having sizes (>= 3 arcsec scale length) and surface brightnesses (<= 24.5 R mag arcsec^-2) characteristic of those expected for dwarf spheroidal galaxies in the cluster. The survey is providing substantial samples of extremely low luminosity galaxies outside the environment of the Local Group and nearby groups for the first time. An initial study of two small areas has found dwarf spheroidal candidates in large numbers (500 deg^-2) which indicate a steep, continuously rising luminosity function at low luminosities. 
Inner regions of barred disk galaxies often include asymmetrical, small-scale central features, some of which are best described as secondary bars. Because orbital timescales in the galaxy center are short, secondary bars are likely to be dynamically decoupled from the main kiloparsec-scale bars. We found that non-chaotic multiply-periodic particle orbits can exist in potentials with two dynamically decoupled bars.Stars trapped around these orbits could form the building blocks for a long-lived, doubly-barred galaxy. A self-consistent secondary bar appears to induce formation of inner gaseous rings rather than shocks in gas flow. 
Recent studies have demonstrated that many galaxy clusters have luminosity functions (LFs) which are steep at the faint end. However, it is equally clear that not all clusters have identical LFs. In this paper we explore whether the variation in LF shape correlates with other cluster or environmental properties. 
Baryon asymmetry of the observed universe as a clue to a resolution of dark matter, galaxy formation and other standard model problems. 
We present results of near--IR long-slit spectroscopy in the J and K bands of the Seyfert 2 galaxies NGC 2110 and Circinus, investigating the gaseous distribution, excitation, reddening and kinematics. In NGC 2110, the emission line ratio [FeII]/Pa beta increases towards the nucleus (to ~ 7). The nuclear [Fe II]1.257 (microns) and Pa beta lines are broader (FWHM ~ 500 km/s) than the H2 (2.121) line (FWHM ~ 300 km/s). Both these results suggest that shocks, driven by the radio jet, are an important source of excitation of [Fe II]. The H2 excitation appears to be dominated by X-rays from the nucleus. In Circinus, both [FeII]/Pa beta and H2/Br gamma decrease from ~ 2 at 4 arcsec from the nucleus to nuclear values of ~ 0.6 and ~ 1, respectively, suggesting that the starburst dominates the nuclear excitation, while the AGN dominates the excitation further out (r > 2 arcsec). For both galaxies, the gaseous kinematics are consistent with circular rotation in the plane of the disk. Our rotation curves suggest that the nucleus (identified with the peak of the IR continuum) is displaced from the kinematic centre of the galaxies. This effect has been observed previously in NGC 2110 based on the kinematics of optical emission lines, but the displacement is smaller in the infrared, suggesting the effect is related to obscuration. The continuum J-K colours of the nuclear region indicate a red stellar population in NGC 2110 and a reddened young stellar population in Circinus. Right at the nucleus of both galaxies, the colours are redder, apparently a result of hot dust emission from the inner edge of a circumnuclear torus. 
In the paper "Big Bang Nucleosynthesis and Active-Sterile Neutrino Mixing: Evidence for Maximal Muon-Neutrino/Sterile-Neutrino Mixing in Super Kamiokande" (astro-ph/9810075), we suggested that to evade the Big Bang Nucleosynthesis exclusion of the muon neutrino to sterile neutrino oscillation explanation of the Super Kamiokande data, the tau neutrino must have a mass over about 15 eV and it must mix with a lighter sterile neutrino. A stable tau neutrino with this mass is inconsistent with cosmological structure formation. In a comment on our paper (astro-ph/9811067), Foot and Volkas argued that our result is incorrect and that the required tau neutrino mass should be much lower. Here we back up our original result with a more detailed calculation. We show that the argument of Foot and Volkas is invalid, most likely due to an insufficient energy resolution in the low energy part of the neutrino spectrum. 
Internal kinematics, spectroscopic binaries and galactic motion are investigated for the trapezium system BD+00.1617 (which lies at the heart of the young open cluster Bochum 2) by means on 73 high resolution Echelle+CCD spectra secured over the period 1994-98. Two of the three O-type member stars are found to be binaries on close and highly eccentric orbits of 6.8 and 11.0 day period. The spectra of the two binaries show large variations in the half-intensity and equivalent widths of the HeI absorption lines, which are intrinsic to the primaries and are not correlated to the orbital phase. Astrometric and radial velocities exclude that one of the component is leaving as a runaway star, but upper limits are still compatible with the trapezium evaporating at very low relative velocities. The projected rotational velocities of the three constituent O--type stars are low. This conforms to expectations from the high frequency of binaries. The observed radial velocity of Bochum 2 agrees with the Hron (1987) expression for the Galaxy rotation inside the latter's quoted errors. 
The atmospheres of extrasolar giant planets are modeled with various effective temperatures and gravities, with and without clouds. Bond albedos are computed by calculating the ratio of the flux reflected by a planet (integrated over wavelength) to the total stellar flux incident on the planet. This quantity is useful for estimating the effective temperature and evolution of a planet. We find it is sensitive to the stellar type of the primary. For a 5 M_Jup planet the Bond albedo varies from 0.4 to 0.3 to 0.06 as the primary star varies from A5V to G2V to M2V in spectral type. It is relatively insensitive to the effective temperature and gravity for cloud--free planets. Water clouds increase the reflectivity of the planet in the red, which increases the Bond albedo. The Bond albedo increases by an order of magnitude for a 13 M_Jup planet with an M2V primary when water clouds are present. Silicate clouds, on the other hand, can either increase or decrease the Bond albedo, depending on whether there are many small grains (the former) or few large grains (the latter). 
Until recently, most asteroids were thought to be solid bodies whose shapes were determined largely by collisions with other asteroids. It now seems that many asteroids are little more than rubble piles, held together by self-gravity; this means that their shapes may be strongly distorted by tides during close encounters with planets. Here we report on numerical simulations of encounters between a ellipsoid-shaped rubble-pile asteroid and the Earth. After an encounter, many of the simulated asteroids develop the same rotation rate and distinctive shape (i.e., highly elongated with a single convex side, tapered ends, and small protuberances swept back against the rotation direction) as 1620 Geographos. Since our numerical studies show that these events occur with some frequency, we suggest that Geographos may be a tidally distorted object. In addition, our work shows that 433 Eros, which will be visited by the NEAR spacecraft in 1999, is much like Geographos, which suggests that it too may have been molded by tides in the past. 
Dynamos in astrophysical disks are usually explained in terms of the standard alpha-omega mean field dynamo model where the local helicity generates a radial field component from an azimuthal field. The subsequent shearing of the radial field gives rise to exponentially growing dynamo modes. There are several problems with this model. The exponentiation time for the galactic dynamo is hard to calculate, but is probably uncomfortably long. Moreover, numerical simulations of magnetic fields in shearing flows indicate that the presence of a dynamo does not depend on a non-zero average helicity. However, these difficulties can be overcome by including a fluctuating helicity driven by hydrodynamic or magnetic instabilities. Unlike traditional disk dynamo models, this `incoherent' dynamo does not depend on the presence of systematic fluid helicity or any kind of vertical symmetry breaking. It will depend on geometry, in the sense that the dynamo growth rate becomes smaller for very thin disks, in agreement with constraints taken from the study of X-ray novae. In this picture the galactic dynamo will operate efficiently, but the resulting field will have a radial coherence length which is a fraction of the galactic radius. 
The Wavelength-Oriented Microwave Background Analysis Team (WOMBAT) is constructing microwave skymaps which will be more realistic than previous simulations. Our foreground models represent a considerable improvement: where spatial templates are available for a given foreground, we predict the flux and spectral index of that component at each place on the sky and estimate the uncertainties in these quantities. We will produce maps containing simulated Cosmic Microwave Background anisotropies combined with all major expected foreground components. The simulated maps will be provided to the cosmology community as the WOMBAT Challenge, a "hounds and hares" exercise where such maps can be analyzed to extract cosmological parameters by scientists who are unaware of their input values. This exercise will test the efficacy of current foreground subtraction, power spectrum analysis, and parameter estimation techniques and will help identify the areas most in need of progress. 
We present a comprehensive study of s-process nucleosynthesis in 15, 20, 25, and 30 $\msun$ stellar models having solar-like initial composition. The stars are evolved up to ignition of central neon with a 659 species network coupled to the stellar models. In this way, the initial composition from one burning phase to another is consistently determined, especially with respect to neutron capture reactions. The aim of our calculations is to gain a full account of the s-process yield from massive stars. In the present work, we focus primarily on the s-process during central helium burning and illuminate some major uncertainties affecting the calculations. We briefly show how advanced burning can significantly affect the products of the core helium burning s-process and, in particular, can greatly deplete $^{80}$Kr that was strongly overproduced in the earlier core helium burning phase; however, we leave a complete analysis of the s-process during the advanced evolutionary phases (especially in shell carbon burning) to a subsequent paper. Our results can help to constrain the yield of the s-process material from massive stars during their pre-supernova evolution. 
Observations of resolved HeII Lyman alpha absorption in spectra of two QSO's suggest that the epoch of helium ionization occurred at z~3. Proximity zones in the spectra of the quasars (z=3.18, 3.285) at 304 A resemble Stromgren spheres, suggesting that the intergalactic medium is only singly ionized in helium. We present models of the proximity effect which include the full physics of the ionization, heating and cooling and an accurately simulated inhomogeneous gas distribution. In these models the underdense intergalactic medium is heated to at least 10,000-20,000 K after cooling to as low as a few 1000 K due to cosmological expansion, with higher temperatures achieved farther away from the quasar due to absorption-hardened ionizing spectra. The quasars turn on for a few times 10^7 years with a fairly steady flux output at 228 A comparable to the 304 A flux output directly observed with HST. The recoveries in the spectra occur naturally due to voids in the IGM and may provide a fairly model-independent probe of the baryon density. 
The supernova SN 1978K has been noted for its lack of emission lines broader than a few thousand km/s since its discovery in 1990. Modeling of the radio spectrum of the peculiar SN 1978K indicates the existence of HII absorption along the line of sight. To determine the nature of this absorbing region, we have obtained a high-dispersion spectrum of SN 1978K at the wavelength range 6530--6610 \AA. The spectrum shows not only the moderately broad H-alpha emission of the supernova ejecta but also narrow nebular H-alpha and [N II] emission. The high [N II]6583/H-alpha ratio, 0.8-1.3, suggests that this radio absorbing region is a stellar ejecta nebula. The expansion velocity and emission measure of the nebula are consistent with those seen in ejecta nebulae of luminous blue variables. Previous low-dispersion spectra have detected a strong [N II]5755 line, indicating an electron density of 3-12x10^5 cm^{-3}. We argue that this stellar ejecta nebula is probably part of the pre-shock dense circumstellar envelope of SN 1978K. We further suggest that SN 1997ab may represent a young version of SN 1978K. 
This article concerns the formation and structure of dark matter halos, including (1) their radial density profiles, (2) their abundance, and (3) their merger rates. The last topic may be relevant to the nature of the small, bright, high-redshift galaxies discovered by the Lyman break technique. (1) Study of a statistical sample of galaxy-mass dark halos in high-resolution Adaptive Refinement Tree simulations shows that they have a central density profile p(r) \propto 1/r^g with g \approx 0.2, in agreement with data on dark-matter-dominated disk galaxies. We present recent, higher resolution results on this. (2) Another important new result is that the Press-Schechter approximation predicts about twice as many galaxy-mass halos at z=0 as are present in large dissipationless N-body simulations; more generally, PS overpredicts the abundance of M ~< 0.1M_* halos at all redshifts. (3) Finally, we discuss the assembly of these halos, in particular the merger rate of (sub-)halos at high redshift and the distribution of the starbursts that these mergers are likely to trigger. If most of the Lyman-break galaxies are such starbursts, this perhaps resolves the apparent paradox that these galaxies appear to cluster like massive halos (~10^{12} M_\odot), while their relatively low linewidths and their spectral energy distributions suggest that they have relatively low mass (few X 10^{10} M_\odot) and young ages (few X 10^8 yr). It also predicts much more star formation at high redshift in CDM-type hierarchical models for structure formation than if only quiescent star formation is included. 
A model is constructed for the mass and dynamics of M87 and the Virgo Cluster. Existing surface photometry of the galaxy, mass estimates from X-ray observations of the hot intracluster gas, and the velocity dispersions of early-type Virgo galaxies, all are used to constrain the run of dark matter density over radii to 2 Mpc in the cluster. The ``universal'' halo advocated by Navarro, Frenk, & White provides an excellent description of the combined data, as does a Hernquist profile. These models are favored over isothermal spheres, and their central structure is preferred to density cusps either much stronger or much weaker than r^{-1}. The galaxies and gas in the cluster trace its total mass distribution, the galaxies' velocity ellipsoid is close to isotropic, and the gas temperature follows the virial temperature profile of the dark halo. The virial radius and mass and the intracluster gas fraction of Virgo are evaluated. 
Nuclear astrophysics is that branch of astrophysics which helps understanding some of the many facets of the Universe through the knowledge of the microcosm of the atomic nucleus. In the last decades much advance has been made in nuclear astrophysics thanks to the sometimes spectacular progress in the modelling of the structure and evolution of the stars, in the quality and diversity of the astronomical observations, as well as in the experimental and theoretical understanding of the atomic nucleus and of its spontaneous or induced transformations. Developments in other sub-fields of physics and chemistry have also contributed to that advance. Many long-standing problems remain to be solved, however, and the theoretical understanding of a large variety of observational facts needs to be put on safer grounds. In addition, new questions are continuously emerging, and new facts endanger old ideas. This review shows that astrophysics has been, and still is, highly demanding to nuclear physics in both its experimental and theoretical components. On top of the fact that large varieties of nuclei have to be dealt with, these nuclei are immersed in highly unusual environments which may have a significant impact on their static properties, the diversity of their transmutation modes, and on the probabilities of these modes. In order to have a chance of solving some of the problems nuclear astrophysics is facing, the astrophysicists and nuclear physicists are obviously bound to put their competence in common, and have sometimes to benefit from the help of other fields of physics, like particle physics, plasma physics or solid-state physics. 
We have discovered a 7.06+-0.08 Hz quasi-periodic oscillation (QPO) in the X-ray flux of the low-luminosity low-mass X-ray binary (LMXB) and atoll source 4U 1820-30. This QPO was only observable at the highest observed mass accretion rate, when the source was in the uppermost part of the banana branch, at a 2-25 keV luminosity of 5.4x10^37 erg/s (for a distance of 6.4 kpc). The QPO had a FWHM of only 0.5+-0.2 Hz during small time intervals (32-s of data), and showed erratic shifts in the centroid frequency between 5.5 and 8 Hz. The rms amplitude over the energy range 2-60 keV was 5.6%+-0.2%. The amplitude increased with photon energy from 3.7%+-0.5% between 2.8 and 5.3 keV to 7.3%+-0.6% between 6.8 and 9.3 keV, above which it remained approximately constant at ~7%. The time lag of the QPO between 2.8-6.8 and 6.8-18.2 keV was consistent with being zero (-1.2+-3.4 ms).   The properties of the QPO (i.e., its frequency and its presence only at the highest observed mass accretion rate) are similar to those of the 5-20 Hz QPO observed in the highest luminosity LMXBs (the Z sources) when they are accreting near the Eddington mass accretion limit. If this is indeed the same phenomenon, then models explaining the 5-20 Hz QPO in the Z sources, which require the near-Eddington accretion rates, will not hold. Assuming isotropic emission, the 2-25 keV luminosity of 4U 1820-30 at the time of the 7 Hz QPOs is at maximum only 40% (for a companion star with cosmic abundances), but most likely ~20% (for a helium companion star) of the Eddington accretion limit. 
We present X-ray observations of the interacting pair of galaxies NGC 4410a/b with the ROSAT HRI and PSPC. The ROSAT HRI images reveal a point-like source corresponding to NGC 4410a and an X-ray halo, extending 10" from the nucleus toward the southeast. The halo emission accounts for ~1/3 (L_X=1.3x10^{41} erg s^{-1} in the 0.1 - 2.4 keV ROSAT band) of the total X-ray emission detected from NGC 4410a. The spectrum of the total X-ray emission from NGC 4410a can be fitted at best with a two-component emission model, combining a Raymond-Smith spectrum with T = 10^7 K and a power-law spectrum (Gamma = 2.2). The fraction of the thermal component to the total flux within this model is 35%, supporting the results of the HRI observation. The total unresolved X-ray luminosity detected with the PSPC amounts to 4x10^{41} erg s^{-1} in the ROSAT PSPC band (for D = 97 Mpc). A preferable explanation might be the interaction between the two galaxies causing a circumnuclear starburst around the active nucleus in the peculiar late type Sab galaxy NGC 4410a. As a cumulative effect of exploding stars a superbubble forms a bipolar outflow from the galactic disk with an expansion time of ~8 Myr. The central source injects mechanical energy at a constant rate of a few times 10^{42} erg s^{-1} into the superbubble. A HST WFPC2 image decovers that NGC 4410a is seen almost face-on so that only the approaching outflow is visible. The HRI contours reveal an elongation of this outflow indicative for a faint X-ray ridge below the detection limit (L_X <= 1.4x10^{39} erg s^{-1}) toward the neighbouring galaxy NGC 4410b caused by its tidal interaction. NGC 4410b houses only a faint X-ray source (L_X <= 3.8x10{39} erg s^{-1}). 
We present spectroscopic observations of galaxies lying within 1' from the QSO J2233-606 in the HDF-S. Several are found to be coincident in redshift with absorption line systems seen in the HST spectrum of the QSO. We detect a new quasar with z=1.3360 at only 45" angular separation from this QSO. This quasar pair is thus an ideal target for QSO environment studies: indeed, strong HI absorptions are seen at z(abs) = 1.3367 in the QSO spectrum, consistent with neutral hydrogen column densities log N(HI) > 16. A bright galaxy at 4"7 from the QSO is at z = 0.570, corresponding also to HI absorption in the QSO's spectrum. Other galaxies are also discussed. 
We calculate the mean power spectrum of galaxies using published power spectra of galaxies and clusters of galaxies. On small scales we use the power spectrum derived from the 2-dimensional distribution of APM galaxies, on large scales we use power spectra derived from 3-dimensional data for galaxy and cluster samples. Spectra are reduced to real space and to the amplitude of the power spectrum of APM galaxies. Available data indicate the presence of two different populations in the nearby Universe. Clusters of galaxies sample a relatively large region in the Universe where rich, medium and poor superclusters are well represented. Their mean power spectrum has a spike on scale 120 h^{-1}Mpc, followed by an approximate power-law spectrum of index n = -1.9 towards small scales. The power spectrum found from LCRS and IRAS 1.2 Jy surveys is flatter around the maximum, which may represent regions of the Universe with medium-rich and poor superclusters. 
A new method to determine the bias parameter of galaxies relative to matter is suggested. The method is based on the assumption that gravity is the dominating force which determines the formation of the structure in the Universe. Due to gravitational instability the galaxy formation is a threshold process: in low-density environments galaxies do not form and matter remains in primordial form. We investigate the influence of the presence of void and clustered populations to the power spectrum of matter and galaxies. The power spectrum of galaxies is similar to the power spectrum of matter; the fraction of total matter in the clustered population determines the difference between amplitudes of fluctuations of matter and galaxies, i.e. the bias factor. To determine the fraction of matter in voids and clustered population we perform numerical simulations. The fraction of matter in galaxies at the present epoch is found using a calibration through the sigma_8 parameter. 
Observed power spectrum of matter found in Papers I and II is compared with analytical power spectra. Spatially flat cold and mixed dark matter models with cosmological constant and open models are considered. The primordial power spectrum of matter is determined using the power spectrum of matter and the transfer functions of analytical models. The primordial power spectrum has a break in amplitude. We conclude that a scale-free primordial power spectrum is excluded if presently available data on the distribution of clusters and galaxies represent the true mass distribution of the Universe. 
Preliminary results of a theoretical determination of the basic parameters of the internal structure of the five Uranian satellies are presented. 
We present models of the 1.4 GHz to 350 GHz spectral index, alpha(350/1.4), for starburst galaxies as a function of redshift. The models include a semi-analytic formulation, based on the well quantified radio-to-far infrared correlation for low redshift star forming galaxies, and an empirical formulation, based on the observed spectrum of the starburst galaxies M82 and Arp 220. We compare the models to the observed values of alpha(350/1.4) for starburst galaxies at low and high redshift. We find reasonable agreement between the models and the observations, and in particular, that an observed spectral index of alpha(350/1.4) > +0.5 indicates that the target source is likely to be at high redshift, z > 1. The evolution of alpha(350/1.4) with redshift is mainly due to the very steep rise in the Raleigh-Jeans portion of the thermal dust spectrum shifting into the 350 GHz band with increasing redshift. We also discuss situations where this relationship could be violated. We then apply our models to examine the putative identifications of submm sources in the Hubble Deep Field, and conclude that the submm sources reported by Hughes et al. are likely to be at high redshifts, z > 1.5. 
We present the observations of the binary lensing event MACHO-98-SMC-1 conducted at the Mt.~Stromlo 74" telescope by the Microlensing Planet Search (MPS) collaboration. The MPS data constrain the first caustic crossing to have occurred after 1998 June 5.55 UT and thus directly rule out one of the two fits presented by the PLANET collaboration (model II). This substantially reduces the uncertainty in the the relative proper motion estimations of the lens object.   We perform joint binary microlensing fits of the MPS data together with the publicly available data from the EROS, MACHO/GMAN and OGLE collaborations. We also study the binary lens fit parameters previously published by the PLANET and MACHO/GMAN collaborations by using them as initial values for $\chi^2$ minimization. Fits based on the PLANET model I appear to be in conflict with the GMAN-CTIO data. From our best fit, we find that the lens system has a proper motion of $\mu = 1.3\pm 0.2 \kmsk$ with respect to the source, which implies that the lens system is most likely to be located in the Small Magellanic Cloud strengthening the conclusion of previous reports. 
IR and Radio band observations of heavily extinguished regions in starburst galaxies suggest a very high SN rate associated with such regions. Optically measured supernova (SN) rates may therefore underestimate the total SN rate by factors of up to 10, due to the high extinction to SNe in starburst regions. The IR/radio SN rates come from a variety of indirect means, however, which suffer from model dependence and other problems.   We describe a direct measurement of the SN rate from a regular patrol of starburst galaxies done with K' band imaging to minimize the effects of extinction. A collection of K' measurements of core-collapse SNe near maximum light is presented. Results of a preliminary SN search using the MIRC camera at the Wyoming IR Observatory (WIRO), and an improved search using the ORCA optics are described. A monthly patrol of starburst galaxies within 25 Mpc should yield 1.6 - 9.6 SNe/year. Our MIRC search with low-resolution (2.2" pixels) failed to find extinguished SNe, limiting the SN rate outside the nucleus (at > 15" radius) to less than 3.8 Supernova Rate Units (SRU or SNe/century/10^10 L(solar); 90% confidence). The MIRC camera had insufficient resolution to search nuclear starburst regions, where SN activity is concentrated, explaining why we found no heavily obscured SNe. We conclude that high-resolution, small field SN searches in starburst nuclei are more productive than low resolution, large-field searches, even for our large galaxies. With our ORCA high-resolution optics, we could limit the total SN rate to < 1.3 SRU at 90% confidence in 3 years of observations, lower than the most pessimistic estimate. 
In the frame of the study of a new sample of large angular size radio galaxies selected from the NRAO VLA Sky Survey, we have made radio observations of J2114+820, a low power radio galaxy with an angular size of 6'. Its radio structure basically consists of a prominent core, a jet directed in north-west direction and two extended S-shaped lobes. We have also observed the optical counterpart of J2114+820, a bright elliptical galaxy with a strong unresolved central component. The optical spectrum shows broad emission lines. This fact, together with its low radio power and FR-I type morphology, renders J2114+820 a non-trivial object from the point of view of the current unification schemes of radio loud active galactic nuclei. 
Why is the lithium abundance constant in the so-called lithium plateau while all predictions suggest that it should vary from star to star? Can we find a "lithium attractor" which would remain stable in halo stars while fundamental parameters (M_*, Teff, [Fe/H]) vary? 
A deep survey of the European Large Area ISO Survey (ELAIS) field in the southern celestial hemisphere (hereinafter S1) has been carried out with the Australia Telescope Compact Array (ATCA) at 1.4 GHz. The S1 region, covering about 4 square degrees, has been also surveyed in the mid- and far-infrared (5-200 micron) with the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). The radio survey provides uniform coverage of the entire S1 region, with a sensitivity (5 sigma) of 0.4 mJy over the whole area and 0.2 mJy in the center. To this sensitivity, virtually all the radio counterparts of the far-infrared extragalactic ISO sources should be detected. This paper presents a radio sample - complete at the 5 sigma level - consisting of 581 sources detected at 1.4 GHz. Of these radio sources, 349 have peak flux density in the range 0.2-1 mJy, forming a new homogeneous sample of sub-mJy radio sources. Due to its size, depth and multi-waveband coverage, the sample will allow us to study in greater detail the sub-mJy radio source population. The full catalogue will be available from http://athena.ph.ac.uk/ 
I review the axion physics with emphases on the couplings of the very light axion and a possible realization in superstring models. 
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the effective beginning of large, systematic redshift surveys of galaxies. These surveys have had a major impact on observational cosmology and on our current understanding of large-scale structures in the Universe. To celebrate this remarkable period some landmark observational results are reviewed and our current understanding of LSS is summarized. Although enormous progress has been achieved in mapping the galaxy distribution to moderate redshifts, many of the questions posed over a quarter of century ago have not yet been convincingly answered and must await the completion of new large solid angle surveys such as 2dF and SDSS. On the other hand, unexpected advances have been made at very high redshifts. After years of searching, well-defined samples of extremely distant galaxies are now available, redshifts are being routinely measured and large programs are planned for the 8-m class telescopes. These ongoing or planned surveys of the nearby and distant Universes promise to provide, within a few years, an extraordinary view of the evolution of galaxies and structures from lookback times approaching ~90% of the age of the Universe to the present epoch. 
Since the last meeting on BL Lac objects 10 years ago, BL Lac host galaxies and their cluster environment have gained much attention. Hence, our current knowledge of the properties of BL Lac host galaxies and their cluster environment has improved considerably, which will be reviewed. The importance of future observing programs using (very) large telescopes is briefly outlined. 
We are constructing a model which aims to reproduce observational data of many kinds related to cosmic-ray origin and propagation: direct measurements of nuclei, antiprotons, electrons and positrons, gamma-rays, and synchrotron radiation. These data provide many independent constraints on any model. Propagation of primary and secondary nucleons, primary and secondary electrons and positrons are calculated self-consistently. Fragmentation and energy losses are computed using realistic distributions for the interstellar gas and radiation fields, and diffusive reacceleration is also incorporated. The models are adjusted to agree with the observed cosmic-ray B/C and 10Be/9Be ratios.   Our main results include evaluation of diffusion/convection and reacceleration models, estimates of the halo size, calculations of the interstellar positron and antiproton spectra, evaluation of alternative hypotheses of hard nucleon and hard electron interstellar spectra, and computation of the Galactic diffuse gamma-ray emission. 
We present the first significant detection of relativistic smearing of the X-ray reflection spectrum from the putative accretion disk in the low/hard state of Cyg X-1. The ionization state, and amount of relativistic smearing are simultaneously constrained by the X-ray spectra, and we conclude that the disk is not strongly ionized, does not generally extend down to the last stable orbit at 3 Schwarzschild radii and covers rather less than half the sky as seen from the X-ray source. These results are consistent with a geometry where the optically thick disk truncates at a few tens of Schwarzschild radii, with the inner region occupied by the X-ray hot, optically thin(ish) plasma. Such a geometry is also inferred from previous studies of the reflected spectrum in Galactic Black Hole transient sources, and from detailed considerations of the overall continuum spectral shape, suggesting that this is a robust feature of low/hard state accretion onto Galactic Black Holes. 
We calculate the cross sections for neutrino interactions with (isoscalar) nuclear targets in the energy domain all the way up to 10^12 GeV. Small x QCD effects are included by using a unified BFKL/DGLAP formalism which embodies non-leading log(1/x) contributions. The few free parameters which specify the input parton distributions are determined by fitting to HERA deep inelastic data. The attenuation of neutrinos transversing the Earth at different nadir angles is calculated for a variety of energy spectra for neutrinos originating from different sources (from Active Galactic Nuclei, Gamma ray bursts, top-down models), as well as for atmospheric neutrinos. For this purpose we solve the transport equation which includes regeneration due to neutral current neutrino interactions, besides attenuation. 
We examine the structure of cool magnetic spots in the photospheres of evolved stars, specifically asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars and R Coronae Borealis stars. We find that the photosphere of a cool magnetic spot will be above the surrounding photosphere of AGB stars, opposite to the situation in the sun. This results from the behavior of the opacity, which increases with decreasing temperature, opposite to the behavior of the opacity near the effective temperature of the sun. We analyze the formation of dust above the cool magnetic spots, and suggest that the dust formation is facilitated by strong shocks, driven by stellar pulsations, which run through and around the spots. The presence of both the magnetic field and cooler temperatures make dust formation easier as the shock passes above the spot. We review some observations supporting the proposed mechanism, and suggest further observations to check the model. 
We propose simple, explicit, analytical approximations for the kinematics of an adiabatic blast wave propagating in an exponentially stratified ambient medium, and for the onset of radiative cooling, which ends the adiabatic era. Our method, based on the Kompaneets implicit solution and the Kahn approximation for the radiative cooling coefficient, gives straightforward estimates for the size, expansion velocity, and progression of cooling times over the surface, when applied to supernova remnants (SNRs). The remnant shape is remarkably close to spherical for moderate density gradients, but even a small gradient in ambient density causes the cooling time to vary substantially over the remnant's surface, so that for a considerable period there will be a cold dense expanding shell covering only a part of the remnant. Our approximation provides an effective tool for identifying the approximate parameters when planning 2-dimensional numerical models of SNRs, the example of W44 being given in a subsequent paper. 
We present a study of the intrinsic absorption lines in the ultraviolet spectra of Seyfert 1 galaxies. We find that the fraction of Seyfert 1 galaxies that show absorption associated with their active nuclei is more than one-half (10/17), which is much higher than previous estimates (3 - 10%) . There is a one-to-one correspondence between Seyferts that show intrinsic UV absorption and X-ray ``warm absorbers''. The intrinsic UV absorption is generally characterized by high ionization: C IV and N V are seen in all 10 Seyferts with detected absorption (in addition to Ly-alpha), whereas Si IV is present in only four of these Seyferts, and Mg II absorption is only detected in NGC 4151. The absorption lines are blueshifted (or in a few cases at rest) with respect to the narrow emission lines, indicating that the absorbing gas is undergoing net radial outflow. At high resolution, the absorption often splits into distinct kinematic components that show a wide range in widths (20 - 400 km/s FWHM), indicating macroscopic motions (e.g., radial velocity subcomponents or turbulence) within a component. The strong absorption components have cores that are much deeper than the continuum flux levels, indicating that the regions responsible for these components lie completely outside of the broad emission-line regions. The covering factor of the absorbing gas in the line of sight, relative to the total underlying emission, is C > 0.86, on average. The global covering factor, which is the fraction of emission intercepted by the absorber averaged over all lines of sight, is C > 0.5. 
We present a detailed study of the color magnitude diagram (CMD) of the dwarf spheroidal galaxy Leo I, based on archival Hubble Space Telescope data. Our photometric analysis, confirming previous results on the brighter portion of the CMD, allow us to obtain an accurate sampling of the stellar populations also at the faint magnitudes corresponding to the Main Sequence. By adopting a homogeneous and consistent theoretical scenario for both hydrogen and central helium-burning evolutionary phases, the various features observed in the CMD are interpreted and reliable estimations for both the distance modulus and the age(s) for the main stellar components of Leo I are derived. More in details, from the upper luminosity of the Red Giant Branch and the lower luminosity of the Subgiant Branch we simultaneously constrain the galaxy distance and the age of the oldest stellar population in Leo I. In this way we obtain a distance modulus (m-M)_V=22.00$\pm$0.15 mag and an age of 10--15 Gyr or 9--13 Gyr, adopting a metallicity Z=0.0001 and 0.0004, respectively. The reliability of this distance modulus has been tested by comparing the observed distribution of the Leo I anomalous Cepheids in the period-magnitude diagram with the predicted boundaries of the instability strip, as given by convective pulsating models. 
The photometric study of the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy by Marconi et al (1998) has suggested the presence of a spread in metallicity (-0.7< [Fe/H] < -1.6), which may result from different bursts of star formation. We present the results from a Multi Object Slit spectroscopy program carried out at the NTT with the aim to determine spectroscopic abundances of Sagittarius giants selected from the CCD photometry. From our intermediate resolution (R about 1500) spectra radial velocities are determined to confirm the membership and metallicities are derived by using spectral synthesis codes for stars down to V about18, i.e. below the RGB clump. Out of 57 observed stars 23 have a radial velocity consistent with Sagittarius membership, here we present results for 8 of these. No star with [Fe/H]<-1.0 is found, three stars are found to be metal-rich. 
In this paper we present the first results of the analysis of intermediate resolution ($\Delta\lambda \sim 3.5 \AA$) spectra of giants of the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy acquired using the ESO NTT telescope. From the deep CCD photometry of Marconi et al (1998a) we have selected a sample of giants representative of the metallicity spread suggested by the comparison of the colour-magnitude diagram of Sagittarius with those of galactic globular clusters. The spectra have been used to measure radial velocities, to confirm the membership to Sagittarius, and to provide a metallicity estimate by using spectral synthesis techniques. The analyzed stars show a spread in metallicities in the range -1.0<[Fe/H]<+0.7, some 0.5 dex more metal-rich than the photometric estimates. 
A lunar occultation event of the Wolf-Rayet star WR 112 (type WC9) has been observed simultaneously from two independent telescopes at lambda = 2.2microns, allowing us to investigate this source with an angular resolution of approx 0.003 arc-seconds. We have detected a circumstellar dust envelope whose brightness distribution can be approximately fitted by a gaussian with a FWHM of approx 0.06 arc-seconds (approx 10^15 cm). We present and discuss the reconstructed brightness profile, which shows an asymmetry in the radial dust distribution. The derived dust grain temperature at the inner dust zone of approx 1150 K is consistent with available model calculations. There is no signature of the central star from our observations, providing a direct confirmation that the circumstellar shell emission dominates over the photospheric emission at 2.2microns as predicted by fits to the spectral energy distribution. Further lunar occultation observations at different position angles are essential to reconstruct the 2--D image of the dust shell around WR 112. The current series of lunar occultations of WR 112 will continue to the end of 1999 and will be visible for all equatorial and southern latitude observatories. 
We present Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer spectroscopy and photometry of the nearby F8 V star HD 35850 (HR 1817). The EUVE spectra reveal 28 emission lines from Fe IX and Fe XV to Fe XXIV. The Fe XXI 102, 129 A ratio yields an upper limit for the coronal electron density, log n < 11.6 per cc. The EUVE SW spectrum shows a small but clearly detectable continuum. The line-to-continuum ratio indicates approximately solar Fe abundances, 0.8 < Z < 1.6. The resulting emission-measure distribution is characterized by two temperature components at log T of 6.8 and 7.4. The EUVE spectra have been compared with non-simultaneous ASCA SIS spectra of HD 35850. The SIS spectrum shows the same temperature distribution as the EUVE DEM analysis. However, the SIS spectral firs suggest sub-solar abundances, 0.34 < Z < 0.81. Although some of the discrepancy may be the result of incomplete X-ray line lists, we cannot explain the disagreement between the EUVE line-to-continuum ratio and the ASCA-derived Fe abundance. Given its youth (t ~ 100 Myr), its rapid rotation (v sin i ~ 50 km/s), and its high X-ray activity (Lx ~ 1.5E+30 ergs/s), HD 35850 may represent an activity extremum for single, main-sequence F-type stars. The variability and EM distribution can be reconstructed using the continuous flaring model of Guedel provided that the flare distribution has a power-law index of 1.8. Similar results obtained for other young solar analogs suggest that continuous flaring is a viable coronal heating mechanism on rapidly rotating, late-type, main-sequence stars. 
The cumulant correlators, $C_{pq}$, are statistical quantities that generalise the better-known $S_p$ parameters; the former are obtained from the two-point probability distribution function of the density fluctuations while the latter describe only the one-point distribution. If galaxy clustering develops from Gaussian initial fluctuations and a small-angle approximation is adopted, standard perturbative methods suggest a particular hierarchical relationship of the $C_{pq}$ for projected clustering data, such as the APM survey. We establish the usefulness of the two-point cumulants for describing hierarchical clustering by comparing such calculations against available measurements from projected catalogs, finding very good agreement. We extend the idea of cumulant correlators to multi-point {\em generalised} cumulant correlators (related to the higher-order correlation functions). We extend previous studies in the highly nonlinear regime to express the generalised cumulant correlators in terms of the underlying ``tree amplitudes'' of hierarchical scaling models. Such considerations lead to a technique for determining these hierarchical amplitudes, to arbitrary order, from galaxy catalogs and numerical simulations. Knowledge of these amplitudes yields important clues about the phenomenology of gravitational clustering. For instance, we show that three-point cumulant correlator can be used to separate the tree amplitudes up to sixth order. We also combine the particular hierarchical {\em ansatz} of Bernardeau & Schaeffer (1992) with extended and hyperextended perturbation theory to infer values of the tree amplitudes in the highly nonlinear regime. 
Here we describe results of our attempt to determine what types of galaxies are responsible for the Lyman-alpha forest absorption systems, based on our ongoing imaging and spectroscopic survey of faint galaxies in fields of HST spectroscopic target QSOs. Our primary conclusions are that the bulk of the Lyman-alpha forest arises in more or less normal galaxies (that span the normal range of luminosity and morphology) and that any ``unseen'' low surface brightness galaxies are unlikely to contribute significantly to the luminosity density of the universe. 
We model an apparent gravitational lens system HDFS 2232509-603243 in the Hubble Deep Field South. The system consists of a blue V=25 mag arc separated by 0.9 arcsec from a red V=22 mag elliptical galaxy. A mass distribution which follows the observed light distribution with a constant mass-to-light ratio can fit the arc component positions if external shear is added. A good fit is also obtained with simple parameterized models, and all the models predict a forth image fainter than the detection limit. The inferred mass-to-light ratio is roughly 15 in solar units if the lens is at redshift 0.6. The lens models predict a velocity dispersion of about 280 km/s which could be confirmed with spectroscopy. 
The radial component of the peculiar velocities of galaxies cause displacements in their positions in redshift space. We study the effect of the peculiar velocities on the linear redshift space two point correlation function. Our analysis takes into account the radial nature of the redshift space distortions and it highlights the limitations of the plane parallel approximation. We consider the problem of determining the value of \beta and the real space two point correlation function from the linear redshift space two point correlation function. The inversion method proposed here takes into account the radial nature of the redshift space distortions and can be applied to magnitude limited redshift surveys that have only partial sky coverage. 
We undertook a surface photometry survey of 200 galaxies in the Virgo cluster (complete to B<14.0 mag) carried out in the near-Infrared (NIR) H band. Combining velocity dispersion measurements from the literature with new spectroscopic data for 11 galaxies we derive distances of 59 early type galaxies using the Fundamental Plane (FP) method. The distance of another 75 late-type galaxies is determined using the Tully-Fisher (TF) method. For this purpose we use the maximum rotational velocity, as derived from HI spectra from the literature, complemented with new H_alpha rotation curves of 8 highly HI deficient galaxies. The zero-point of the FP and TF template relations are calibrated assuming the distance modulus of Virgo mu_o=31.0, as determined with the Cepheids method. Using these 134 distance determinations (with individual uncertainties of 0.35 (TF), 0.45 (FP) mag) we find that the distance of cluster A, associated with M87, is mu_o=30.84+-0.06. Cluster B, off-set to the south, is found at mu_o=31.84+-0.10$. This subcluster is falling onto A at about 750 km/sec. Clouds W and M are at twice the distance of A. Galaxies on the North-West and South-East of the main cluster A belong to two clouds composed almost exclusively of spiral galaxies with distances consistent with A, but with significantly different velocity distributions, suggesting that they are falling onto cluster A at approximately 770 km/sec from the far-side and at 200 km/sec from the near-side respectively. The mass of Virgo inferred from the peculiar motions induced on its vicinity is consistent with the virial expectation. 
To study large-scale structure in the Universe a full census of the contents are required. This is even more important when the processes of galaxy formation are being investigated. In the last year the population of distant galaxies that emit most of their energy in the infrared waveband have been studied in unprecedented detail. The intensity of background radiation at wavelengths between 3 mm and 10 microns has been determined to within a factor of about 2, and much of this background radiation has been resolved into individual galaxies. These galaxies are largely hidden from view in the optical waveband by absorption due to interstellar dust. By combining this new knowledge with the ever growing body of information gathered using optical telescopes, the process of galaxy formation is slowly being revealed. Great opportunities for studying the distant Universe are promised by advances in instrumentation in the millimeter (mm), submm and far-infrared wavebands over the next decade. 
Recent HST and ISO observations provide very severe limits on any compact baryonic contributions to galactic (dark) halos. When combined with Milky Way Galaxy microlensing results, almost the entire plausible range of massive compact baryonic objects is excluded by direct observation. Deep direct imaging at 7mu and 15mu with ISOCAM on the ISO spacecraft directly excludes hydrogen-burning stars of any mass above the hydrogen-burning limit, and of any chemical abundance, from being the predominant explanation of the dark halos of external spiral galaxies. In the Milky Way Galaxy, HST has provided luminosity functions to the hydrogen-burning limit in several globular clusters. The resulting mass functions do not provide any support for dominance by very low-mass stars. This is consistent with field surveys for sub-stellar mass brown dwarfs, which show such objects to be relatively rare. These results are complemented by very deep HST luminosity functions in the Large Magellanic Cloud, providing strong support for the (near)-universality of the stellar mass function. Very recent HST results are available for the nearby dSph galaxy UMi. This galaxy, the most dark-matter dominated object known on kpc scales, has a normal stellar mass function at low masses. The prospects are bright for dark elementary particles. 
We report on near IR ($J$ and $K$ bands) observations of two $8 \times 8 \~(arcmin)^{2}$ regions centered on the old open clusters Berkeley~17 and Berkeley~18, for which only optical photometry (in $B$,$V$ and $I$ bands) exists. $J$ and $K$ photometry allows us to obtain an independent estimate of cluster metallicity by means of the relationship between the spectroscopic metallicity and the Red Giant Branch (RGB) slope calibrated by Tiede et al (1997). From the analysis of the colour magnitude diagram (CMD) and luminosity function (LF), Berkeley~17 turns out to have a metal content $[Fe/H]~\sim~-0.35$. It is $9~Gyr$ old, suffers from a reddening $E(B-V) = 0.58 mag$ and has an heliocentric distance of $2.5 kpc$. Berkeley~17 comes out to be substantially younger than in previous work (age $\approx 13~Gyr$). On the other hand Berkeley~18 is found to have solar metal abundance, and to be younger than Berkeley~17, with an age of about $4~Gyr$. While we confirm Kaluzny (1997) reddening estimate, we significantly revise the distance of the cluster, which lies $4.5 kpc$ from the Sun. These results on two open clusters believed to be between the oldest put constraints on the age and the evolution of the Galactic Disc. The absence of clusters older than $8-9~Gyr$ suggests the possibility that the Galaxy underwent a star formation minimum between 13 and $10~Gyr$ ago. 
We present the data from a mid-infrared imaging survey of 66 proto-planetary nebula candidates using two mid-IR cameras (MIRAC2 and Berkcam) at the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility and the United Kingdom Infrared Telescope. The goal of this survey is to determine the size, flux, and morphology of the mid-IR emission regions, which sample the inner regions of the circumstellar dust shells of proto-planetary nebulae. We imaged these proto-planetary nebulae with narrow-band filters ($\Delta\lambda / \lambda \sim 10%$) at wavelengths of notable dust features. With our typical angular resolution of 1\arcsec, we resolve 17 sources, find 48 objects unresolved, and do not detect 1 source. For several sources, we checked optical and infrared associations and positions of the sources. In table format, we list the size and flux measurements for all the detected objects and show figures of all the resolved sources. Images for all the detected objects are available on line in FITS format from the Astronomy Digital Image Library at the National Center for Supercomputing Application. The proto-planetary nebula candidate sample includes, in addition to the predominant proto-planetary nebulae, extreme asymptotic giant branch stars, young planetary nebulae, a supergiant, and a luminous blue variable. We find that dust shells which are cooler ($\rm T \sim 150$ K) and brighter in the infrared are more easily resolved. Eleven of the seventeen resolved sources are extended and fall into one of two types of mid-IR morphological classes: core/elliptical or toroidal. Core/elliptical structures show unresolved cores with lower surface brightness elliptical nebulae. Toroidal structures show limb-brightened peaks suggesting equatorial density enhancements. We argue that core/ellipticals have denser dust shells than toroidals. 
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey has obtained images in five broad-band colors for several hundred square degrees. We present color-color diagrams for stellar objects, and demonstrate that quasars are easily distinguished from stars by their distinctive colors. Follow-up spectroscopy in less than ten nights of telescope time has yielded 22 new quasars, 9 of them at $z> 3.65$, and one with $z = 4.75$, the second highest-redshift quasar yet known. Roughly 80% of the high-redshift quasar candidates selected by color indeed turn out to be high-redshift quasars. 
Observations of six luminous blue compact galaxies (BCGs) and two star forming companion galaxies were carried out with the CIGALE scanning Fabry-Perot interferometer attached to the ESO 3.6m telescope on La Silla. The observations were made in the H-alpha emission line which is prominent in BCGs. A velocity sampling of 5 km/s and a pixel size of 0.9 arcseconds were used. In this paper we present the observations and the data together with the velocity fields and the derived rotation curves. In addition we provide rough estimates of the total dynamical mass and of the ionised gas mass for each galaxy. All galaxies display rotation, but while the companion galaxies have regular velocity fields, those of the BCGs are complex and appear perturbed. This is the most extensive study to date of the optical velocity fields of BCGs. The interpretation of these results will be presented in a forthcoming paper (Paper II). 
We simulate the dynamical, chemical, and spectro-photometric evolution of dwarf and normal elliptical galaxies embedded in a dark matter halo, using a three-dimensional N-body/SPH simulation code. For the forming dwarf elliptical galaxies, supernova-driven winds propagating outwards from inside the system collide with the infalling gas and produce the super-shell in which stars are formed. The resulting stellar system forms a loosely bound virialized system due to the significant mass loss and has a large velocity dispersion and a large core. Consequently the surface brightness distribution shows an exponential profile and the color distribution shows a positive gradient such that the colors become redder away from the galaxy center in agreement with observations. On the other hand, for the normal elliptical galaxies with deep gravitational potential, the mass loss out of the system does not have a significant dynamical effect on the stellar system. The resulting surface brightness distribution has a large central concentration like de Vaucouleurs' $r^{1/4}$-profile and the color distribution shows a negative gradient as observed. Our simulation shows that different features between dwarf and normal elliptical galaxies stem from different cooling efficiencies for their respective protogalaxies in a standard CDM universe. 
Recent observations have revealed a superbubble associated with the young stellar cluster OCl 352 near the W4 H II region: a void in H I emission (Normandeau, Taylor, and Dewdney), and a bright shell in H alpha emission (Dennison, Topasna, and Simonetti). We investigate the hypothesis that the bubble is blown by stellar winds from the O-type stars in the association. The Kompaneets approximation is adapted to model a wind-blown bubble in a stratified interstellar medium. We describe some general principles necessary for understanding the dynamics of an expanding bubble and the associated ionization structure in a stratified atmosphere. The Kompaneets model can be used to determine the mean scale height of the ambient medium as well as the age of the bubble. The ionization structure also places constraints on the ambient density near the cluster. We also estimate the surface brightness of the shell and the fraction of ionizing photons which escape the bubble. The prescription we use can be applied to any observed bubble that is blown by the effectively continuous energy output of stellar winds or multiple supernovae. Application to the W4 superbubble shows that the mean scale height of the ambient gas around the cluster is remarkably small, 25 pc for a cluster distance of 2.35 kpc. The age of the bubble is estimated to be about 2.5 Myr, consistent with the notion that the bubble is blown by stellar winds from a very young cluster in which no supernovae have yet occurred. 
Stationary magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) outflows from a rotating, conducting Keplerian accretion disk threaded by B-field are investigated numerically by time-dependent, axisymmetric (2.5D) simulations using a Godunov-type code. A large class of stationary magneto-centrifugally driven winds are found where matter is accelerated from a thermal speed at the disk to much larger velocity, greater than the fast magnetosonic speed and larger than the escape speed. The flows are approximately spherical outflows with only small collimation within the simulation region. Numerical results are shown to coincide with the theoretical predictions of ideal, axisymmetric MHD to high accuracy. Investigation of the influence of outer boundary conditions, particularly that on the toroidal component of magnetic field shows that the commonly used ``free'' boundary condition leads to artificial magnetic forces which can act to give spurious collimation. New boundary conditions are proposed which do not generate artificial forces. Artificial results may also arise for cases where the Mach cones on the outer boundaries are partially directed into the simulation region. 
The Antennae is a pair of late type spirals in the course of merging. The interaction triggered an ongoing strong burst of star formation that also produced a large number of Young Star Clusters (YSCs), many of which seem to be young Globular Clusters (GCs). The observed Luminosity Function of the YSC system is a power-law. We use evolutionary synthesis models for star clusters in comparison with HST WFPC observations of the YSC system in the Antennae to analyse the mass function of this ${\rm \sim 2 \cdot 10^8}$ yr young star cluster system. Properly accounting for age spread effects by individually age-dating the YSCs we find that the intrinsic Mass Function (MF) is log-normal in shape and in intriguing agreement with the MF of old GC systems. We discuss this MF in the context of cluster formation and dynamical effects in the tidal field of the parent galaxy and speculate about its future evolution. 
We discuss the determination of the intergalactic pair-production absorption coefficient (Stecker & De Jager 1998) making use of an empirically based calculation of the IR background spectrum (Malkan & Stecker 1998) which agrees well with recent data and constraints on the IR background. While the Whipple observations of Mrk421 hint at extragalactic absorption, the new HEGRA observations of Mrk501 appear to strongly indicate such absorption. We discuss the determination of absorption at higher redshifts (Salamon & Stecker 1998). We also give a predicted spectrum, with absorption included, for PKS2155-304, which, at a redshift of 0.12, is the highest redshift TeV source yet observed. 
The formation of supermassive black holes through the gravitational collapse of supermassive objects ($M \ga 10^4 M_\odot$) has been proposed as a source of cosmological gamma-ray bursts. The major advantage of this model is that such collapses are far more energetic than stellar-remnant mergers. The major drawback of this idea is the severe baryon loading problem in one-dimensional models. We can show that the observed log N - log P (number vs. peak flux) distribution for gamma-ray bursts in the BATSE database is not inconsistent with an identification of supermassive object collapse as the origin of the gamma-ray bursts. This conclusion is valid for a range of plausible cosmological and gamma-ray burst spectral parameters. 
We investigate the effects of baryon/anti-baryon inhomogeneity on primordial nucleosynthesis. Recent work claims that electroweak baryogenesis could give rise to distinct regions of net baryon and anti-baryon number, which could survive until the nucleosynthesis epoch. We discuss neutron diffusion effects on nucleosynthesis yields in these models and speculate on the prospects for obtaining constraints. 
NGC 253 is a nearby spiral galaxy that is currently undergoing a nuclear burst of star formation in a 100 pc diameter region. We present spatially resolved 8--13 micron low-resolution spectra at four positions along the ridge of 8--13 micron emission. We find that the relative strengths of the ionic, dust emission features, and dust continuum emission vary with position in the galaxy but can be accounted for everywhere without recourse to extinction by silicates. The brightest mid-infrared peak (which is displaced from the nucleus) has elevated levels of both continuum and 11.1--12.9 micron `plateau' emission, indicative of dust heated within a photo-dissociation region. Spectra obtained over the course of 3 yr at the position of the brightest mid-infrared peak show no significant time variation. 
In order to constrain the initial mass function of the first generation of stars (Population III), one has to study the fragmentation properties of primordial gas. We present results from 3D simulations, based on Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics, which explore the idea that small-scale fluctuations in the (cold) dark matter recreate a filamentary and clumpy structure in the gas component on scales smaller than the initial Jeans mass, where all primordial fluctuations would have been wiped out. 
In inflationary models with minimal amount of gravity waves, the primordial power spectrum of density fluctuations, $A_S^2(k)$, together with the basic cosmological parameters, completely specify the predictions for the cosmic microwave background (CMB) anisotropy and large scale structure. Here we show how we can strongly constrain both $A_S^2(k)$ and the cosmological parameters by combining the data from the Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP) and the galaxy redshift survey from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). We allow $A_S^2(k)$ to be a free function, and thus probe features in the primordial power spectrum on all scales. MAP and SDSS have scale-dependent measurement errors that decrease in opposite directions on astrophysically interesting scales; they complement each other and allow the measurement of the primordial power spectrum independent of inflationary models, giving us valuable information on physics in the early Universe, and providing clues to the correct inflationary model. 
We present a new geometrical method for measuring the distance to the Galactic center (R_0) by solving for the Keplerian orbit of individual stars bound to the black hole associated with the Sgr A* from radial velocity and proper motion measurements. We identify three stars to which the method may be applied, and show that 1-5 % accuracy of R_0 can be expected after 15 years of observing, and 0.5-2 % after 30 years of observing, depending on what the orbital parameters of these three stars turn out to be. Combining the measurements of the three stars with favorable orbital parameters leads to even more precise values. In the example that we present, such combined solution yields 4 % accuracy already by the year 2002. All these estimates assume that annual position measurements will continue to be made with the 2 mas precision recently reported by Ghez et al. The precision of the distance measurement is relatively insensitive to the radial velocity errors, provided that the latter are less than 50 km/s. Besides potentially giving an estimate of R_0 that is better than any currently in use, the greatest advantage of this method is that it is free from systematic errors. 
In recent years, a remarkably simple physical picture of the Lyman-alpha forest has emerged, which allows detailed predictions to be made and turns the forest into a powerful probe of cosmology. We point out ways in which such a picture can be tested observationally, and explore three areas in which the Lyman-alpha forest can yield valuable constraints: the reionization history, the primordial mass power spectrum and the cosmological constant or its variants. The possibility of combining with other high redshift observations, such as the Lyman-break galaxy surveys, to provide consistency checks and complementary information is also discussed. 
We report the first result from our survey of rapid variability in symbiotic binaries: the discovery of a persistent oscillation at P=1682.6 +- 0.6 s in the optical emission from the prototype symbiotic, Z Andromedae. The oscillation was detected on all 8 occasions on which the source was observed over a timespan of nearly a year, making it the first such persistent periodic pulse found in a symbiotic binary. The amplitude was typically 2 - 5 mmag, and it was correlated with the optical brightness during a relatively small outburst of the system. The most natural explanation is that the oscillation arises from the rotation of an accreting, magnetic (B_S > 10^5 G) white dwarf. This discovery constrains the outburst mechanisms, since the oscillation emission region near the surface of the white dwarf was visible during the outburst. 
N-body + hydrodynamic simulations of galaxy clusters are used to demonstrate a correlation between galaxy cluster mass and the strength of the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) effect induced by the cluster. The intrinsic scatter in the correlaton is larger than seen in the cluster mass -- X-ray temperature correlation, but smaller than seen in the correlation between mass (or temperature) and X-ray luminosity, as expected. Using the convergence to self-similarity of cluster structure at larger radii, a simple area-averaged SZ value derived from mock SZ maps also correlates well with mass; the intrinsic scatter in this correlation is comparable to that seen in simulations for the mass -- temperature correlation. Such a relation may prove a powerful tool for estimating cluster masses at higher redshifts. 
The combination of STIS and optical spectroscopy with STIS imaging of the field surrounding J2233-606 afford a unique opportunity to study the physical nature of the Quasar Absorption Line systems. We present an analysis of the ionization state, chemical abundances, and kinematic characteristics of two metal-line systems at z=1.92 and z=1.94 toward J2233-606. We focus on these two systems because (i) the observations provide full coverage of the Lyman series, hence an accurate determination of their HI column densities and (ii) the metal-line transitions allow a measurement of their ionization state.   Line-profile fits of the Lyman series for the two systems indicate log N(HI) = 17.15 \pm 0.02 cm^-2 evenly distributed between two components for the z=1.92 system and log N(HI) = 16.33 \pm 0.04 cm^-2 for the z=1.94 system. By comparing observed ionic ratios of C and Si against calculations performed with the CLOUDY software package, we find the ionization state is high and well constrained in both systems. Applying ionization corrections to the measured ionic column densities, we determine that the systems exhibit significantly different metallicities: ~ 1/50 solar and < 1/200 solar for the two components of z=1.92 and ~40% solar at z=1.94. The properties of the z=1.92 system are consistent with a low metallicity galaxy (e.g. a dwarf galaxy) as well as absorption by large scale structure of the IGM. On the other hand, the high metallicity of the z=1.94 system suggests significant star formation and is therefore most likely associated with a galactic system. Furthermore, we predict it is the most likely to be observed with the STIS imaging and follow-up observations. If a galaxy is identified, our results provide direct measurements on the properties of the ISM for a z~2 galaxy. 
There has been much debate in recent decades as to what fraction of ionizing photons from star forming regions in the Galactic disk escape into the halo. The recent detection of the Magellanic Stream in optical line emission at the CTIO 4m and the AAT 3.9m telescopes may now provide the strongest evidence that at least some of the radiation escapes the disk completely. While the distance to the Magellanic Stream is uncertain, the observed H-alpha emission is most plausibly explained by photoionization due to hot, young stars. Our model requires that the mean Lyman-limit opacity perpendicular to the disk is tau \approx 2.8 (f_esc = 6%), assuming the covering fraction of resolved clouds is close to unity. Within the context of this model, it now becomes possible to determine distances to high velocity clouds, and the 3D orientation of the Magellanic Stream. Here, we discuss complications of the model (e.g., porosity, topology), future tests, ongoing improvements, and the importance of H-alpha limb brightening from surface ionization. More speculatively, we propose a direct experiment for locating an HVC in 6-dimensional phase space above the Galactic plane. 
We report the ASCA results of the bursting X-ray pulsar \gro, which was observed in February 1996 and March 1997. The source flux in the 2--10 keV band was $2.0\times10^{-8}$ erg/sec/cm$^2$ in 1996 and $5.0\times10^{-9}$ erg/sec/cm$^2$ in 1997. We detected 12 and 17 Type II bursts during the two observations with mean bursting intervals of about 27 min and 37 min. Each burst is followed by an intensity dip with the depleted flux depending on the burst fluence. The energy spectra are approximated by an absorbed power law with additional structure around 6--7 keV\@. Constant absorption column, $(5-6)\times10^{22}$ cm$^{-2}$, independent of the observation dates and emission phases (persistent, burst and dip) is interpreted as an interstellar absorption. The source may be actually located near the Galactic center, at a distance of 8.5 kpc. The structure in the energy spectrum at 6--7 keV is most probably due to iron and maybe reproduced by a disk line model with additional broadening mechanism. 
We present a new method of utilizing the color and asymmetry values for galaxies in the Hubble Deep Field to determine both their morphological features and physical parameters. By using a color-asymmetry diagram, we show that various types of star-forming galaxies (e.g. irregular versus interacting, peculiar galaxies) can be distinguished in local samples. We apply the same methods to the F814W images of the Hubble Deep Field, and show preliminary results indicating that galaxy mergers and interactions are the dominate process responsible for creating asymmetries in the HDF galaxies. 
We present here an alternative method for calculating magnifications in gravitational lensing calculations -- the Ray Bundle method. We provide a detailed comparison between the distribution of magnifications obtained compared with analytic results and conventional ray-shooting methods. The Ray Bundle method provides high accuracy in the weak lensing limit, and is computationally much faster than (non-hierarchical) ray shooting methods to a comparable accuracy.   The Ray Bundle method is a powerful and efficient technique with which to study gravitational lensing within realistic cosmological models, particularly in the weak lensing limit. 
A consequence of the evaporation of primordial black holes in the early universe may be the generation of mirror matter. This would have implications with regard to dark matter, and the number of light particle species in equilibrium at the time of big bang nucleosynthesis. The possibilities for the production of mirror matter by this mechanism are explored. 
We present the results of a photometric study of RR Lyrae variables in the field of the globular cluster M55. We have discovered nine new RR Lyrae stars, increasing the number of known variables in this cluster to 15 objects. Five of the newly discovered variables belong to Bailey type RRc and two to type RRab. Two background RRab stars are probable members of the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy. Fourier decomposition of the light curves was used to derive basic properties of the present sample of RR Lyrae variables. From an analysis of the RRc variables we obtain a mean mass of $M=0.53\pm0.03 M_\odot$, luminosity $\log L=1.75\pm0.01$, effective temperature $T_{eff}=7193\pm27$ K, and helium abundance $Y=0.27\pm0.01$. Based on the $B-V$ colors, periods and metallicities of the RRab stars we estimate the value of the color excess for M55 to be equal to $E(B-V)=0.11\pm0.03$. Using this value we derive the colors of the blue and red edges of the instability strip in M55. The blue edge lies at $(B-V)_0=0.20$ mag and the red edge lies at $(B-V)_0=0.38$ mag. We estimate the values of the visual apparent and dereddened distance moduli to be $13.65\pm0.11$ and $13.31\pm0.11$, respectively. The light curves of three of the RRc variables exhibit changes in amplitude of over 0.1 mag on the time scale of less than a week, rather short for the Blazhko effect, but with no evidence for another radial pulsational frequency. However we do detect other periodicities which are clearly visible in the light curve after removing variations with the first overtone radial frequency. This is strong evidence for the presence of non-radial pulsations, a behavior common for $\delta$ Scuti stars but not yet observed among RR Lyr variables. 
We present preliminary results on our campaign of observations of the X-ray binary pulsar GX301-2. BeppoSAX observed this source six times in January/February 1998: at the periastron and apoastron, and at other four, intermediate, orbital phases. We present preliminary results on the GX301-2 spectral and temporal behaviour as a function of orbital phase. 
Representing single stellar populations, globular clusters (GCs) are relatively easy to model, thus providing powerful tools for studying the evolution of galaxies. This has been demonstrated for the blue compact galaxy ESO338-IG04. GC systems in galaxies may be fossils of starbursts and mergers. Thus studies of GCs in the local universe may add to our understanding of the formation and evolution of galaxies and the distant universe. 
A review of recent developments in the field of X-ray surveys, especially in the hard (2-10 and 5-10 keV) bands, is given. A new detailed comparison between the measurements in the hard band and extrapolations from ROSAT counts, that takes into proper account the observed distribution of spectral slopes, is presented. Direct comparisons between deep ROSAT and BeppoSAX images show that most hard X-ray sources are also detected at soft X-ray energies. This may indicate that heavily cutoff sources, that should not be detectable in the ROSAT band but are expected in large numbers from unified AGN schemes, are in fact detected because of the emerging of either non-nuclear components, or of reflected, or partially transmitted nuclear X-rays. These soft components may complicate the estimation of the soft X-ray luminosity function and cosmological evolution of AGN. 
A model of the density distribution in the intergalactic medium, motivated by that found in numerical simulations, is used to demonstrate the effect of a clumpy IGM and discrete sources on the reionization of the universe. In an inhomogeneous universe reionization occurs outside-in, starting in voids and gradually penetrating into overdense regions. Reionization should not be sudden but gradual, with a continuous rise of the photon mean free path over a fair fraction of the Hubble time as the emissivity increases. We show that a hydrogen Gunn-Peterson trough should be present at $z\simeq 6$ unless the emissivity increases with redshift at $z>4$. However, the epoch of overlap of cosmological \hii regions could have occurred at a higher redshift if sources of low luminosity reionized the IGM; the Gunn-Peterson trough at $z\sim 6$ would then appear because even the most underdense voids have a large enough neutral fraction in ionization equilibrium to be optically thick to \lya photons. Cosmological \hii regions near the epoch of overlap can produce gaps of transmitted flux only if luminous quasars contributed to the reionization. Despite the clumpiness of the matter distribution, recombinations are not very important during the reionization of hydrogen because the high density gas is not ionized until a late time. We show that the \heii reionization was most likely delayed relative to the hydrogen reionization, but should be completed by $z\sim 3$, the redshift where observations are available. The reported large optical depth fluctuations of \heii are probably not due to an incomplete \heii reionization, but arise from a combination of density fluctuations and the variations in the intensity of the ionizing background due to luminous QSO's. 
The origin of the X-ray background spectral intensity has been a long standing problem in high energy astrophysics research. Deep X-ray surveys carried out with ROSAT and ASCA combined with the broad band spectral results of Ginga and BeppoSAX satellites strongly support the hypothesis that the bulk of the X-ray background is due to the integrated contribution of discrete sources (mainly AGNs). At higher energies the unexpected findings of the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory indicate that also the gamma-ray background is likely to be due to AGNs. I will discuss AGN--based models for the high energy backgrounds and how future observations will improve our understanding of the X and gamma-ray backgrounds and of the physics and evolution of AGNs. 
We report the discovery of strong aperiodic X-ray variability and quasi-periodic oscillation (QPO) in the X-ray light curves of a new X-ray Nova, XTE J1550-564, and the evolution of the observed temporal properties during the rise of the recent X-ray outburst. The power spectral analysis of the first observation reveals strong aperiodic X-ray variability of the source (~28%), as well as the presence of a QPO at ~82 mHz with fractional rms amplitude ~14% over the 2-60 keV energy range. Also apparent is the first harmonic of the QPO with the amplitude ~9%. As the X-ray flux increases, the source tends to become less variable, and the QPO frequency increases rapidly, from 82 mHz to 4 Hz, over the flux (2-50 keV) range of 1.73-5.75 x 10^{-8} ergs cm^{-2} s^{-1}. The amplitude of the fundamental component of the QPO varies little, while that of the harmonic follows a decreasing trend. The fundamental component strengthens toward high energies, while its harmonic weakens. Initially, the power spectrum is roughly flat at low frequencies and turns into a power law at high frequencies, with the QPO harmonic sitting roughly at the break. In later observations, however, the high-frequency portion of the continuum can actually be better described by a broken power law (as opposed to a simple power law). This effect becomes more apparent at higher energies. The overall amplitude of the continuum shows a similar energy dependence to that of the fundamental component of the QPO. Strong rapid X-ray variability, as well as hard energy spectrum, makes XTE J1550-564 a good black hole candidate. We compare its temporal properties with those of other black hole candidates. 
When does a GRB stop and its afterglow begin? A GRB may be defined as emission by internal shocks and its afterglow as emission by an external shock, but it is necessary to distinguish them observationally. With these definitions irregularly varying emission (at any frequency) must be the GRB, but smoothly varying intensity is usually afterglow. The GRB itself and its afterglow may overlap in time and in frequency, and distinguishing them will, in general, require detailed modeling. 
The polarization of the CMBR scattered by galaxy clusters in the kinematic Sunyaev Zeldovich effect depends on the transverse velocity of the cluster. This polarizing effect is proportional to the transverse velocity squared, and so weaker that the change in intensity due to the radial motion in the kinematic effect. The value given by Sunyaev and Zeldovich, and which is frequently cited, underestimates the polarizing effect by a factor of ten. We show furthermore that the polarization has a strong frequency dependence. This means that the polarization should be detectable with the new generation of CMBR probes, at least for some clusters. Thus this effect offers, almost uniquely, a method of obtaining the vectorial velocity of clusters. 
We present results from a study of bias and its evolution for galaxy-size halos in a large, high-resolution simulation of a LCDM model. We consider the evolution of bias estimated using two-point correlation function (b_xi), power spectrum (b_P), and a direct correlation of smoothed halo and matter overdensity fields (b_d). We present accurate estimates of the evolution of the matter power spectrum probed deep into the stable clustering regime (k~[0.1-200]h/Mpc at z=0). The halo power spectrum evolves much slower than the power spectrum of matter and has a different shape which indicates that the bias is time- and scale-dependent. At z=0, the halo power spectrum is anti-biased with respect to the matter power spectrum at wavenumbers k~[0.15-30]h/Mpc, and provides an excellent match to the power spectrum of the APM galaxies at all probed k. In particular, it nicely matches the inflection observed in the APM power spectrum at k~0.15h/Mpc. We complement the power spectrum analysis with a direct estimate of bias using smoothed halo and matter overdensity fields and show that the evolution observed in the simulation in linear and mildly non-linear regimes can be well described by the analytical model of Mo & White (1996), if the distinction between formation redshift of halos and observation epoch is introduced into the model. We present arguments and evidence that at higher overdensities, the evolution of bias is significantly affected by dynamical friction and tidal stripping operating on the satellite halos in high-density regions of clusters and groups; we attribute the strong anti-bias observed in the halo correlation function and power spectrum to these effects. (Abridged) 
In radio galaxies such as M84 dust features tend to be nearly perpendicular to radio jets yet are not aligned with the galaxy isophotes. The timescale for precession in the galaxy is short suggesting that an alternative mechanism causes the gas disk to be misaligned with the galaxy. In M84 we estimate the pressure on the disk required to overcome the torque from the galaxy and find that it is small compared to the thermal pressure in the hot ambient ISM estimated from the X-ray emission. We therefore propose that pressure gradients in a jet associated hot interstellar medium exert a torque on the gas disk in M84 causing it to be misaligned with the galaxy isophotal major axis. This mechanism could explain the connection between gas disk angular momentum and jet axes in nearby radio galaxies.   By integrating the light of the galaxy through a warped gas and dust disk we find that the geometry of gas disk in M84 is likely to differ that predicted from a simple precession model. We find that the morphology of the gas disk in M84 is consistent with a warped geometry where precession is caused by a combination of a galactic torque and a larger torque due to pressure gradients in the ambient X-ray emitting gas. Precession occurs at an axis between the jet and galaxy major axis, but nearer to the jet axis implying that the pressure torque is 2-4 times larger than the galactic torque. A better model to the morphology of the disk is achieved when precession takes place about an elliptical rather than circular path. This suggests that the isobars in the hot medium are strongly dependent on angle from the jet axis. 
A substantial fraction of the energy density of the universe may consist of quintessence in the form of a slowly-rolling scalar field. Since the energy density of the scalar field generally decreases more slowly than the matter energy density, it appears that the ratio of the two densities must be set to a special, infinitesimal value in the early universe in order to have the two densities nearly coincide today.   Recently, we introduced the notion of tracker fields to avoid this initial conditions problem. In the paper, we address the following questions: What is the general condition to have tracker fields? What is the relation between the matter energy density and the equation-of-state of the universe imposed by tracker solutions? And, can tracker solutions explain why quintessence is becoming important today rather than during the early universe? 
We simulate the astrometric observations of stars moving close to the black hole in the Galactic Center. We show, that for orbits =<1000 AU and position measurements with the accuracy of the Keck Interferometer, the periastron motion of elliptical orbits will be measurable for bright enough stars, K< 17.6 mag. The models of star trajectories neglecting the periastron motion will be easy to reject with the high confidence level. The measurement of orbital elements and the periastron motion can be effectively used as an independent estimate of the distance to the Galactic Center. The effects of orbit precession may be visible in some cases. The effects of gravitational radiation are completely negligible as well as the influence of the black hole rotation on the propagation of light.   galaxies: black holes -- galaxies: individual (Milky Way) -- gravitational lensing -- relativity 
We review the observational evidences and the possible theoretical explanations for the abundance gradients in the Galactic disk. In particular, we discuss the implications of abundance gradients and gradients of abundance ratios on the mechanism for the formation of the Galaxy. We conclude that an {\bf inside-out} formation of the Galaxy, and in particular of the Galactic disk, where the innermost regions are assumed to have formed much faster than the outermost ones, represents the most likely explanation for abundance gradients and we predict that the abundance gradients along the Galactic disk have increased with time. 
We consider the acceleration of charged particles at the ultra-relativistic shocks, with Lorentz factors \Gamma_s >> 1 relative to the upstream medium, arising in relativistic fireball models of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs). We show that for Fermi-type shock acceleration, particles initially isotropic in the upstream medium can gain a factor of order \Gamma_s^2 in energy in the first shock crossing cycle, but that the energy gain factor for subsequent shock crossing cycles is only of order 2, because for realistic deflection processes particles do not have time to re-isotropise upstream before recrossing the shock.   We evaluate the maximum energy attainable and the efficiency of this process, and show that for a GRB fireball expanding into a typical interstellar medium, these exclude the production of ultra-high-energy cosmic rays (UHECRs), with energies in the range 10^{18.5} - 10^{20.5} eV, by the blast wave. We propose, however, that in the context of neutron star binaries as the progenitors of GRBs, relativistic ions from the pulsar wind bubbles produced by these systems could be accelerated by the blast wave. We show that if the known binary pulsars are typical, the maximum energy, efficiency, and spectrum in this case can account for the observed population of UHECRs. 
We present a detailed investigation of the X-ray and optical properties of the starburst-merger system Arp299 (NGC 3690, Mrk 171), with an emphasis on its spectacular gaseous nebula. We analyse \rosat and \asca X-ray data and optical spectra and narrow-band images. We suggest that the on-going galaxy collision has tidally-redistributed the ISM of the merging galaxies. The optical emission-line nebula results as this gas is photoionized by radiation that escapes from the starburst, and is shock-heated, accelerated, and pressurized by a `superwind' driven by the collective effect of the starburst supernovae and stellar winds. The X-ray nebula in Arp 299 is is plausibly a mass-loaded flow of adiabatically-cooling gas that carries out a substantial fraction of the energy and metals injected by the starburst at close to the escape velocity from Arp 299. The mass outflow rate likely exceeds the star-formation rate in this system. We conclude that powerful starbursts are able to heat (and possibly eject) a significant fraction of the ISM in merging galaxies. 
Using existing models for the evolution of clustering we show that the first sources are likely to be highly biased and thus strongly clustered. We compute intensity fluctuations for clustered sources in a uniform IGM. The strong fluctuations imply the universe was reheated and reionized in a highly inhomogeneous fashion. 
We report on X-ray observations of the core of the Shapley Supercluster. Combining data from pointed observations of the ROSAT PSPC detector and data from the ROSAT All-Sky Survey, the observed region covers an area of $6^\circ \times 3^\circ$. It contains the central clusters A3562, A3558 and A3556.   We find clear evidence for X-ray emission connecting the three clusters. This confirms the existence of a filamentary, physical structure embedding the three clusters A3562, A3558 and A3556. We also find evidence for faint emission westwards of A3556. In total, the extension of the filamentary X-ray emission of the core of the Shapley Supercluster amounts up to at least $\sim 17.5 h_{50}^{-1}$ Mpc. The total luminosity in the 0.1-2.4 keV energy band is $\sim 16\times10^{44} h_{50}^{-2}$ erg s$^{-1}$. 
Most luminous infrared galaxies (LIGs) are closely interacting/merging systems rich in molecular gas. We study here the relationship between the stage of the galaxy-galaxy interactions, the molecular gas mass, and the star formation rate as deduced from the infrared luminosity L_IR in LIGs. We find a correlation between the CO(1-0) luminosity (a measure of molecular mass M(H_2)) and the projected separation of merger nuclei (indicator of merging stages) in a sample of 50 LIG mergers, which shows that the molecular gas content decreases as merging advances. The starburst is due to enhanced star formation in pre-existing molecular clouds and not to the formation of more molecular clouds from HI.   The molecular content is being rapidly depleted due to the starbursts as merging progresses. This is further supported by an anti-correlation between L_IR/M(H_2), the global measure of the star formation rate per unit gas mass, and the projected separation implying an enhanced star formation ``efficiency'' in late stage mergers compared to that of early mergers. This is the first evidence connecting the depletion of molecular gas with starbursts in interacting galaxies. 
We describe a program of star counts in the range 19 < I < 26 made with the WFPC cameras aboard the Hubble Space Telescope. Red (V-I > 1.0) stars at these magnitudes are primarily disk and spheroid M dwarfs. The stars are found both on dedicated images as part of the parallel program and by using appropriate archive data. We measure the faint end of the luminosity functions of the disk and spheroid (i.e. stellar halo). We measure the low mass end of the mass function and show that M dwarfs do not dominate the total disk or spheroid mass. We place strong I-band constraints on the amount of halo dark matter in the form of low mass stars (such as M dwarfs or cool white dwarfs). The disk and spheroid contribute only a minor amount of optical depth toward the Magellanic clouds. 
The forwards approach to galaxy formation and evolution is extremely powerful but leaves several questions unanswered. Foremost among these is the origin of disks. A backwards approach is able to provide a more realistic treatment of star formation and feedback and provides a practical guide to eventually complement galaxy formation ab initio. 
This paper presents theoretical HST and broad band colours from population synthesis models based on an homogeneous set of stellar evolutionary tracks as computed under canonical (no overshooting) assumptions, covering the range of cluster ages from t=8 Myr to t=5 Gyr for three different metallicities (Z=0.02, 0.006, and 0.001). Statistical fluctuations in the cluster population have been investigated, assessing the predicted fluctuations of the various colours as a function of the cluster integrated absolute magnitude. We show that the red leak in HST UV filters deeply affects the predicted fluxes and colours. However, we find that for F152M-F307M < 0.5 and for F170M-F278M < 0.5 (which means ages lower than 1 Gyr) the HST UV colours can still be used to infer reliable indications on the age of distant clusters. Moreover, one finds that the age calibration of these colours is scarcely affected by the amount of original helium or by the assumed IMF. On this basis, we present a calibration of the HST UV two-colours (F152M-F307M vs F170M-F278M) in terms of cluster ages for the three above quoted metallicities. We suggest the combined use of HST UV colours and IR colours (V-K in particular) to disentangle the metallicity-age effect in integrated colours of young stellar populations (t< 1 Gyr). 
I discuss the properties of gas-rich forming galaxies. I particularly emphasize the latest results on Lyman alpha emission that are relevant to the search of distant young galaxies. The interdependance of the Lyman alpha escape with the properties of the ISM in starburst galaxies is outlined. A new model from G. Tenorio-Tagle and his collaborators explaining Lyman alpha profiles in starburst galaxies from the hydrodynamics of superbubbles powered by massive stars is presented. I stress again that since Lyman alpha is primarely a diagnostic of the ISM, it is mandatory to understand how the ISM and Lyman alpha are related to firmly relate Lyman alpha to the cosmic star-formation rate. 
We present the results of the analysis of the BeppoSAX LECS and MECS pointed observation of the E4 galaxy NGC 3923, for which previous X-ray measurements had given a medium X-ray to optical ratio Lx/Lb. The spectral analysis over (0.5-10) keV reveals that the best representation of the data is the superposition of two thermal components at temperatures of 0.4 keV and 6-8 keV. The total emission is roughly equally divided between the two components, over (0.5-4.5) keV. The harder component is consistent with an origin from stellar sources; the softer component likely comes from hot gas. Lx of this hot gas is not as large as expected for a global inflow, in a galaxy of an optical luminosity as high as that of NGC3923. So, it is suggested that a substantial amount of hot gas was removed by internal agents, and that this process was helped by the flat mass distribution of the galaxy. Another possibility is that gas was lost as a consequence of the episod of interaction or merger that produced the system of shells visible in the optical band. Finally, the possible origins of the large scatter in the X-ray emission shown by galaxies of similar Lb are also reviewed. Like NGC 3923, many other low and medium Lx/Lb galaxies reside in small groups, in which the ambient medium (if present) cannot strip them of their hot gas; so, if only environmental factors are invoked to lower Lx/Lb, the most effective mechanism must be galaxy interactions. The lower Lx/Lb galaxies, though, are seen to occur across the whole range of galaxy densities. Another possibility, to remove some or all of the hot gas, appeals to mechanisms internal to the galaxies, ... 
Deep HST-WFPC2 observations of the stellar population in the globular cluster Omega Cen (NGC 5139) have been used to measure the luminosity function of main sequence stars at the low-mass end. Two fields have been investigated, located respectively ~4.6' and ~7' away from the cluster center, or near the half-light radius of this cluster (~4.8'). The color-magnitude diagrams derived from these data show the cluster main sequence extending to the detection limit at I ~ 24. Information on both color and magnitude is used to build the luminosity functions of main sequence stars in these fields and the two independent determinations are found to agree very well with each other within the observational uncertainty. Both functions show a peak in the stellar distribution around M_I ~ 9 followed by a drop at fainter magnitudes well before photometric incompleteness becomes significant, as is typical of other globular clusters observed with the HST. This result is at variance with previous claims that the luminosity function of Omega Cen stays flat at low masses, but is in excellent agreement with recent near-IR NICMOS observations of the same cluster. 
I review current theories of disk galaxy formation. All fail in the light of recent data for low surface brightness galaxies. The difficulty stems from the presence of a unique acceleration scale in the data. 
I explore some consequences of Milgrom's modified dynamics for cosmology. There appear to be two promising tests for distinguishing MOND from CDM: (1) the rate of growth of structure and (2) the baryon fraction. These should be testable with observations of clusters at high redshift and the microwave background, respectively. 
We present extensive calculations on the efficiency of grain alignment by the Davis-Greenstein mechanism. We model the grains as oblate spheroids with arbitrary axis ratios. Our description of the grain dynamics includes (i) magnetic dissipation and the inverse process driven by thermal fluctuations in the grain magnetization; (ii) gas-grain collisions and thermal evaporation of molecules from the grain surface; (iii) the transformation of rotational energy into heat by the Barnett effect and the inverse process driven by thermal fluctuations; and (iv) rapid Larmor precession of the grain angular momentum about the interstellar magnetic field. For ordinary paramagnetic grains, we calculate the Rayleigh reduction factor, R, for more than 1000 combinations of the 3 dimensionless parameters which characterise the alignment. For superparamagnetic grains, we calculate R from an exact analytic solution for the relevant distribution function. We calibrate the accuracy of a recently-proposed perturbative approximation and show that it yields R values with a mean error of about 17 percent. 
We have obtained V and I-band photometry for about 700 stars in the field of the dwarf irregular galaxy IC 5152, previously considered a possible member of the Local Group. Deep VI color-magnitude diagrams are presented of the main body of this galaxy and of a nearby field. We infer a distance by comparison with the VI color-magnitude diagrams of similar galaxies and with theoretical isochrones. The distance modulus to IC 5152 is found to be m-Mo = 26.15 +/- 0.2, adopting E(V-I) = 0. This distance of D=1.7 Mpc implies that IC 5152 is not a certain member of the Local Group. We also construct a deep optical luminosity function. By comparison with theoretical isochrones, we find a metallicity Z of approximately 0.002, which is lower than previous estimates. Using this metallicity and distance, IC 5152 now fits the metallicity-luminosity relation for dwarf galaxies. The youngest stars in the field studied have an age of ~10^7 Gyr, and there is a substantial population of stars with log t>7.8-8 yr. The central region of IC 5152 is an active site of star formation, as found by comparing our optical photometry with Hubble Space Telescope ultraviolet images. Several candidate globular clusters are found, as well as a candidate for a potential nucleus. 
Echo mapping exploits light travel time delays, revealed by multi-wavelength variability studies, to map the geometry, kinematics, and physical conditions of reprocessing sites in photo-ionized gas flows. In AGNs, the ultra-violet to near infra-red light arises in part from reprocessing of EUV and X-ray light from a compact and erratically variable source in the nucleus. The observed time delays, 0.1-2 days for the continuum, 1-100 days for the broad emission lines, probe regions only micro-arcseconds away from the nucleus. The continuum time delays map the temperature-radius profiles of the AGN accretion discs. The emission-line delays reveal radially stratified ionization zones, identify the nature of the gas motions, and estimate the masses of the central black holes. By using light travel time to measure the sizes of AGN accretion discs and photo-ionized zones, echo mapping offers two independent ways to measure redshift-independent distances to AGNs. 
Recently we have elaborated a new cosmological model of gamma-ray burst (GRB) origin (1998, ApJ 502, 192), which employs the dynamical evolution of central dense stellar clusters in the galactic nuclei. Those clusters inevitably contain a large fraction of compact stellar remnants (CSRs), such as neutron stars (NSs) and stellar mass black holes (BHs), and close encounters between them result in radiative captures into short-living binaries, with subsequent merging of the components, thereby producing GRBs (typically at large distances from the nucleus).   In the present paper, we calculate the redshift distribution of the rate of GRBs produced by close encounters of NSs in distant galactic nuclei. To this end, the following steps are undertaken: (i) we establish a connection between the parameters of the fast evolving central stellar clusters (i.e. those for which the time of dynamical evolution exceeds the age of the Universe) with masses of the forming central supermassive black holes (SMBHs) using a dynamical evolution model; (ii) we connect these masses with the inferred mass distributions of SMBHs in the galactic nuclei and the redshift distribution of quasars by assuming a certain `Eddington luminosity phase' in their activity; (iii) we incorporate available observational data on the redshift distribution of quasars as well as a recently found correlation between the masses of galaxies and their central SMBHs. The resulting redshift distribution of the GRB rate, which accounts for both fast and slowly evolving galactic nuclei is consistent with that inferred from the BATSE data if the fraction of fast evolving galactic nuclei is in the range $0.016-0.16$. 
We look for space-time correlations between 2233 gamma-bursts in the Batse Catalogs and 894 upward-going muons produced by neutrino interactions in the rock below or inside MACRO. Considering a search cone of 10 degrees around GRB directions and a time window of 200 s we find 0 events to be compared to 0.035 expected background events due to atmospheric neutrinos. The corresponding upper limit (90% c.l.) is 0.87 * 10^-9 cm^-2 upward-going muons per average burst. 
AgapeZ1 is the brightest and the shortest duration microlensing candidate event found in the Agape data. It occured only 42" from the center of M31. Our photometry shows that the half intensity duration of the event6 is 4.8 days and at maximum brightness we measure a stellar magnitude of R=18.0 with B-R=0.80 mag color. A search on HST archives produced a single resolved star within the projected event position error box. Its magnitude is R=22. 
Astronomy is entering a new era as multiple, large area, digital sky surveys are in production. The resulting datasets are truly remarkable in their own right; however, a revolutionary step arises in the aggregation of complimentary multi-wavelength surveys (i.e. the cross-identification of a billion sources). Federating these different datasets, however, is an extremely challenging task. With this task in mind, we have identified several areas where community standardization can provide enormous benefits in order to develop the techniques and technologies necessary to solve the problems inherent in federating these large databases, as well as the mining of the resultant aggregate data. Several of these areas are domain specific, however, the majority of them are not. We feel that the inclusion of non-astronomical partnerships can provide tremendous insights. 
The features and problems of a speculative model based on the electron neutrino being a tachyon are discussed. The model is consistent with five properties of the cosmic ray spectrum, and it predicts a flux of neutrons in a narrow energy region centered on 4.5 +/- 2.2 x 10^{15} eV. 
The highly nonlinear regime of gravitational clustering is characterized by the presence of scale-invariant form of many-body correlation functions. Useful insights can be obtained by investigating the consequences of a generic scaling {\em ansatz}. Extending earlier studies by Bernardeau & Schaeffer (1992) we calculate the detailed consequences of such scaling. We generalise the two-point cumulant correlators to a hierarchy of multi-point cumulant correlators (MCC). We introduce the concept of reduced cumulant correlators (RCC) and their related generating functions. Using analytical and diagrammatic method we show that every new vertex of the tree representation of higher-order correlations has its own reduced cumulant correlator. In the limit of large separations, MCCs of arbitrary order can be expressed in terms of RCCs of the same and lower order. We relate the generating functions of RCCs with the statistics of {\em collapsed} objects. We develop the hierarchy for the correlation functions of overdense regions. In this vein, we compute the lower-order cumulants and cumulant correlators for overdense regions. Our study shows how they vary as a function of the initial power spectrum of primordial density fluctuations (abridged). 
This paper reports the star count predictions of warped and flaring models of the outer Milky Way disk. These have been suggested as possible locations of the lenses responsible for the microlensing events towards the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). Three such models are investigated in detail and the theoretical predictions are confronted with {\it Hubble Space Telescope} (HST) star count data in 7 low latitude fields ($30^\circ < | b| < 40^\circ$). If the warped and flaring disk population has the same characteristics as disk stars in the solar neighbourhood, then the models can be unambiguously ruled out. Metallicity gradients are well-known in disk galaxies and may cause the outer disk population to differ in colors and luminosity from that locally. This effect is studied using a simple ansatz for the variation in the color-magnitude relation with position and while it is shown to lead to better agreement with the star counts, upper limits on the contribution of the warped and flaring disk to the optical depth are still below the value measured towards the LMC. Only if the warp is very asymmetric or if the luminosity function changes strongly with Galactocentric radius can the models be made consistent with the starcounts. 
We present an electronic catalog of infrared and optical photometry and photometric redshifts of 323 galaxies in the Hubble Deep Field South NICMOS field at http://www.ess.sunysb.edu/astro/hdfs/home.html. The analysis is based on infrared images obtained with the Hubble Space Telescope using the Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrograph and the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph together with optical images obtained with the Very Large Telescope. The infrared and optical photometry is measured by means of a new quasi-optimal photometric technique that fits model spatial profiles of the galaxies determined by Pixon image reconstruction techniques to the images. In comparison with conventional methods, the new technique provides higher signal-to-noise-ratio measurements and accounts for uncertainty correlations between nearby, overlapping neighbors. The photometric redshifts are measured by means of our redshift likelihood technique, incorporating six spectrophotometric templates which, by comparison with spectroscopic redshifts of galaxies identified in the Hubble Deep Field North, are known to provide redshift measurements accurate to within an RMS relative uncertainty of (Delta z)/(1 + z) < 0.1 at all redshifts z < 6. The analysis reaches a peak H-band sensitivity threshold of AB(16000) = 28.3 and covers 1.02 acrmin^2 to AB(16000) = 27, 1.27 arcmin^2 to AB(16000) = 26, and 1.44 arcmin^2 to AB(16000) = 25. The analysis identifies galaxies at redshifts ranging from z near 0 through z greater than 10, including 17 galaxies of redshift 5 < z < 10 and five candidate galaxies of redshift z > 10. 
We present two-dimensional MHD numerical simulations for the interaction of high-velocity clouds with both magnetic and non-magnetic Galactic thick gaseous disks. For the magnetic models, the initial magnetic field is oriented parallel to the disk, and we consider two different field topologies (with and without tension effects): parallel and perpendicular to the plane of motion of the clouds. The impinging clouds move in oblique trajectories and fall toward the central disk with different initial velocities. The $B$-field lines are distorted and compressed during the collision, increasing the field pressure and tension. This prevents the cloud material from penetrating into the disk, and can even transform a high-velocity inflow into an outflow, moving away from the disk. The perturbation creates a complex, turbulent, pattern of MHD waves that are able to traverse the disk of the Galaxy, and induce oscillations on both sides of the plane. Thus, the magnetic field efficiently transmits the perturbation over a large volume, but also acts like a shield that inhibits the mass exchange between the halo and the disk. For the non-magnetized cases, we also uncover some novel features: the evolution of the shocked layer generates a tail that oscillates, creating vorticity and turbulent flows along its trajectory. 
The time profiles of Cherenkov images of cosmic-ray showers and of gamma-ray showers are investigated, using data gathered with the HEGRA system of imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes during the 1997 outbursts of Mrk 501. Photon arrival times are shown to vary across the shower images. The dominant feature is a time gradient along the major axis of the images. The gradient varies with the distance between the telescope and the shower core, and is maximal for large distances. The time profiles of cosmic-ray showers and of gamma-ray showers differ in a characteristic fashion. The main features of the time profiles can be understood in terms of simple geometrical models. Use of the timing information towards improved shower reconstruction and cosmic-ray suppression is discussed. 
After briefly reviewing the impact of various parameters on photoionization models, we illustrate the importance of the nebular geometry by two examples: we first compare the results from models with thin shell and full shell geometry, and we study the influence of a diffuse ionized medium in the integrated spectra of galaxies at large redshift. Finally, we show how the calibration of the strong line method for deriving oxygen abundances depends on the assumed average properties of the ionizing star cluster and on the density distribution of the nebular gas. 
We consider the unusual evolutionary state of the secondary star in Cygnus X-2. Spectroscopic data give a low mass ($M_2 \simeq 0.5 - 0.7\msun$) and yet a large radius ($R_2 \simeq 7\rsun$) and high luminosity ($L_2 \simeq 150\lsun$). We show that this star closely resembles a remnant of early massive Case B evolution, during which the neutron star ejected most of the $\sim 3\msun$ transferred from the donor (initial mass $M_{\rm 2i}\sim 3.6\msun$) on its thermal time-scale $\sim 10^6$ yr. As the system is far too wide to result from common-envelope evolution, this strongly supports the idea that a neutron star efficiently ejects the excess inflow during super--Eddington mass transfer. Cygnus X-2 is unusual in having had an initial mass ratio $q_{\rm i} = M_{\rm 2i}/M_1$ in a narrow critical range near $q_{\rm i}\simeq 2.6$. Smaller $q_{\rm i}$ lead to long-period systems with the former donor near the Hayashi line, and larger $q_{\rm i}$ to pulsar binaries with shorter periods and relatively massive white dwarf companions. The latter naturally explain the surprisingly large companion masses in several millisecond pulsar binaries. Systems like Cygnus X-2 may thus be an important channel for forming pulsar binaries. 
We present first results of a large photometric survey devoted to study the star formation history of the Sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy (Sgr dSph). Three wide strips (9 X 35 arcmin^2) located at l~5 and b=-16, -14, -12 have been observed. Each strip is roughly EW oriented, nearly along the major axis of the galaxy. A control field (~9 X 24 arcmin^2), located outside the body of Sgr dSph has also been observed for statistic decontamination purposes. Accurate and well calibrated V,I photometry down to V~22 have been obtained for \~90000 stars toward the Sgr dSph, and ~8000 stars in the control field. This is the largest photometric sample (covering the widest spatial extension) ever observed in the Sgr dSph up to now. The main new results presented in this paper are: (1) the possible discovery of a strong asymmetry in the distribution of stars along the major axis, since the north-western arm of the Sgr galaxy (i.e. the region nearer to the Galactic Bulge) apparently shows a significant deficiency of Sgr stars and (2) the first direct detection of a very metal poor (and presumably old) population in the Sgr stellar content. Hints for a metallicity gradient toward the densest region of the galaxy are also reported. 
We review the observations of nebular HeII 4686 emission in Local Group objects and extra-galactic HII regions. Different ionization mechanisms proposed to explain the unusually high excitation are summarized. The models of Schaerer (1996) and Schaerer & Vacca (1998) predict nebular HeII emission due to hot WN and WC/WO stars, in good agreement with observations of Wolf-Rayet (WR) galaxies showing WR signatures and/or nebular HeII. Comparisons of synthesis models with observations suggest that nebular HeII emission may be related to WR stars in all cases. The case of I Zw 18 is discussed. It is shown that the observed WR lines and nebular HeII can be reproduced with an instantaneous burst model and a Salpeter IMF. This supports the suggestion that WR stars are responsible for nebular HeII emission. 
The spectrum of the unidentified infrared (UIR) emission bands between 5.9 and 11.7 [micro]m has been observed for the first time in the disk of an external galaxy. We have used the low-resolution spectrometer of the ISOPHOT instrument aboard ISO. The UIR bands at 6.2, 7.7 and 11.3 [micro]m have absolute intensities which are similar to the values observed for the diffuse emission of our own Galaxy. The UIR bands between 5.9 and 11.7 [micro]m contribute ~9% of the total IR radiation of NGC 891. The intensity ratios and band widths in the NGC 891 disk emissions are similar to the diffuse emission of the Milky Way, pointing to a common carrier for the UIR bands in the two galaxies. However, there are some notable variations of the band ratios along the major axis of the galaxy. 
We present a new compilation of Wolf-Rayet (WR) galaxies and extra-galactic HII regions showing BROAD HeII emission drawn from the literature. Relevant information on the presence of other broad emission lines (NIII 4640, CIV 5808 and others) from WR stars of WN and WC subtypes, and other existing broad nebular lines is provided. In total we include 139 known WR galaxies. Among these, 57 objects show both broad HeII and CIV features. In addition to the broad (stellar) HeII emission, a NEBULAR HeII component is well established (suspected) in 44 (54) objects. We find 19 extra-galatic HII regions without WR detections showing nebular HeII emission. The present sample can be used for a variety of studies on massive stars, interactions of massive stars with the ISM, stellar populations, starburst galaxies etc. The data is accessible electronically and will be updated periodicaly. 
We present the catalog of 1459 eclipsing binary stars detected in the central 2.4 square degree area of the Small Magellanic Cloud during the OGLE-II microlensing search. The sample includes objects brighter than I=20 mag with periods ranging from about 0.3 to 250 days. The average completeness of the catalog is about 80%. Statistics of the entire sample and well detached systems, suitable for distance determination, are also presented.   The catalog, finding charts and BVI photometry data for all objects are available from the OGLE Internet archive. 
We are performing a survey of the Galactic Center region with the BeppoSAX satellite. Several known point sources are visible (including one at the position of SgrA*), as well as newly discovered sources and diffuse emission. Here we report the preliminary results of the on-going analysis of both the point sources and the diffuse X-ray emission. 
Multi-frequency, high resolution, full sky measurements of the anisotropy in both temperature and polarisation of the cosmic microwave background radiation are the goals of the satellite missions MAP (NASA) and Planck (ESA). The ultimate data products of these missions - multiple microwave sky maps, each of which will have to comprise more than 10^6 pixels in order to render the angular resolution of the instruments - will present serious challenges to those involved in the analysis and scientific exploitation of the results of both surveys. Some considerations of the relevant aspects of the mathematical structure of future CMB data sets are presented in this contribution. >>> for better on-screen rendition of the figures see <<< http://www.tac.dk/~healpix or http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/~cosmo/contributions.html 
During the 1996 HST/FOS monitoring campaign of the Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 3516, the UV continuum showed a factor of 5 variation; correspondingly the strongest broad UV emission lines (e.g. Ly-alpha, CIV) displayed somewhat weaker, though still significant variations (a factor of 2). In contrast, no variation was detected in the strong broad MgII+UV FeII emission-line complex. While historically the flux in the broad MgII emission line has varied (a factor of 2 within a few years), the profile shape has not been observed to change over the past decade. In contrast, the high ionization lines (HILs) show both emission-line flux and profile changes on relatively short timescales, which appear to be correlated with changes in the continuum level. Significantly, on 1996, February 21, the profile shapes of the HILs (e.g. Ly-alpha, CIV) and low ionization lines (LILs, e.g. MgII) were identical, at which time the continuum level was at its highest. These results impose stringent constraints upon viable kinematic models of the BLR in NGC 3516, some of which we discuss below. 
The structure, kinematics and dynamics of the Galactic stellar halo are reviewed including evidence of substructure in the spatial distribution and kinematics of halo stars. Implications for galaxy formation theory are subsequently discussed; in particular it is argued that the observed kinematics of stars in the outer Galactic halo can be used as an important constraint on viable galaxy formation scenarios. 
Snapshot images of about 100 BL Lac objects were obtained with WFPC2 on HST. Sources from various samples, in the redshift range 0.05 to 1.2, were observed and 61 resolved (51 with known z).   The high resolution and homogeneity of the images allow us to address the properties of the immediate environments of BL Lacs with unprecedented capability. Host galaxies of BL Lacs are luminous ellipticals (on average 1 mag brighter than L*) with no or little disturbed morphology.   The nucleus, that is always well centered onto the galaxy, contributes in the optical (R band) to about half of the total luminosity of the object (range of the contribution from 0.1 to 10). The undisturbed morphology suggests that the nuclear activity has marginal effect on the overall properties of the hosts. Nonetheless several examples of close companions have been detected.   The luminosity distribution of host galaxies is compared with that of a large sample of FR-I radio galaxies. 
By a systematic method we construct general classes of exact and selfconsistent axisymmetric MHD solutions describing flows which originate at the near environment of a central gravitating astrophysical object. The unifying scheme contains two large groups of exact MHD outflow models, (I) meridionally self-similar ones with spherical critical surfaces and (II) radially self-similar models with conical critical surfaces. The classification includes known polytropic models, such as the classical Park er model of a stellar wind and the Blandford and Payne (1982) model of a disk-wind; it also contains nonpolytropic models, such as those of winds/jets in Sauty and Tsinganos (1994), Lima et al (1996) and Trussoni et al (1997). Besides the unification of these known cases under a common scheme, several new classes emerge and some are briefly analysed; they could be explored for a further understanding of the physical properties of MHD outflows from various magnetized and rotating astrophysical objects in stellar or galactic systems. 
We present the results of a CCD imaging survey for gravitational lensing in a sample of 38 X-ray-selected clusters of galaxies. Our sample consists of the most X-ray luminous (Lx>= 2x10^{44} erg s^{-1}) clusters selected from the Einstein Observatory Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey (EMSS) that are observable from Mauna Kea (dec > -40deg). The sample spans a redshift range of 0.15 < z < 0.823 and includes 5 clusters with z > 0.5. CCD images of the clusters were obtained in excellent seeing. There is evidence of strong gravitational lensing in the form of giant arcs (length l > 8'', axis ratio l/w > 10) in 8 of the 38 clusters. Two additional clusters contain shorter arclets, and 6 more clusters contain candidate arcs that require follow-up observations to confirm their lensing origin. Since the survey does not have a uniform surface brightness limit we do not draw any conclusion based on the statistics of the arcs found. We note, however, that 60% (3 of 5) of the clusters with Lx > 10^{45} erg s^{-1}, and none of the 15 clusters with Lx < 4x10^{44} erg s^{-1} contain giant arcs, thereby confirming that high X-ray luminosity does identify the most massive systems, and thus X-ray selection is the preferred method for finding true, rich clusters at intermediate and high redshifts. The observed geometry of the arcs, most of which are thin, have large axis ratios (l/w > 10), and are aligned orthogonal to the optical major axes of the clusters, indicate the cluster core mass density profiles must be compact (steeper than isothermal). In several cases, however, there is also some evidence, in the form of possible radial arcs, for density profiles with finite core radii. 
Thanks to HST, there are now many galaxies with Cepheid distances and these provide the main platform for the calibration of the secondary distance indicators. I review recent progress in our understanding of the standard candle properties of Cepheids with particular emphasis on the techniques used in the HST studies. The PL relation defined by Cepheids in the LMC is shown to be excellent, although the distance to the LMC, which determines the zero-point, is still rather controversial. This LMC relation is consistent with the galactic calibrations which use Hipparcos parallaxes or Baade-Wesselink distances. However, the PL plot for Cepheids observed in galactic open-clusters is suggestive of an age dependence of the main-sequence fitting distances, similar to that seen for clusters with Hipparcos parallax distances. Observational and theoretical studies suggest that the metallicity dependence of Cepheid properties is not large, but is sufficiently important that it should be accounted for. However, the fact that target galaxies are typically of similar metallicities to the calibrators, suggest that metallicity corrections won't have a major impact on estimates of the Hubble constant. Incompleteness biases can also affect Cepheid samples, but are usually best dealt with by imposing a conservative lower limit on period. 
We summarise recent developments on synthesis models for massive star populations with a particular emphasis on Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars. Quantitative analysis of the stellar content of WR galaxies are reviewed. Comparing observations of WR galaxies from various samples with synthesis models we derive constraints on their burst properties. The observations indicate very short burst periods and are generally compatible with a Salpeter IMF and a large upper mass cut-off. The use of the Hbeta equivalent width as an age indicator works well for WR galaxies. We briefly summarise comparisons of stellar populations in super star clusters which also provide useful contraints on evolutionary models for massive stars e.g. at very low metallicities inaccessible in the Local Group. In particular the observed WN and WC populations favour the high mass loss models of Meynet et al. (1994). Finally we review recent work on the origin of nebular HeII emission. From the new catalogue of WR galaxies and high excitation HII regions of Schaerer et al. (1998) we find a close relation between the presence of nebular HeII and WR stars. The analysis of individual WR galaxies including I Zw 18 supports the suggestion of Schaerer (1996) that hot WR stars are responsible for the hard ionizing flux. 
The luminous X-ray binary and black-hole candidate LMC X-1 has been observed with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) to search for quasi-periodic oscillations (QPO), previously reported in its high state. The source was observed monthly in a series of nine observations. Analysis of the temporal variations shows no evidence for QPO or other periodic changes, but correlations between the high-energy light curve and hardness of the spectrum are described. Spectral fits with two-component models demonstrate that the hardness variations come from changes in the intensity of the high-energy power-law tail. 
Image processing is an increasingly important aspect for analysis of data from X and $\gamma$-ray astrophysics missions. In this paper, I review a method proposed by Kebede (L. W. Kebede 1994, ApJ, 423, 878), and point out an error in the derivation of this method. It turns out that this error is not debilitating -- the method still ``works'' in some sense -- but as published is rather sub-optimal, as demonstrated both on theoretical grounds and via a set of examples. 
We detail a technique for estimating the UV extinction and luminosity of UV selected galaxies using UV quantities alone. The technique is based on a tight correlation between the ratios of far infrared (FIR) to UV flux ratios and UV color for a sample of local starbursts. A simple empirical fit to this correlation can be used to estimate UV extinction as a function of color. This method is applied to a sample of Lyman-break systems selected from the HDF and having $z \approx 3$. The resultant UV emissivity is at least nine times higher than the original Madau et al. (1996) estimate. This technique can be readily applied to other rest-frame UV surveys. 
Comparison of our chemically consistent models for spiral galaxies with observed DLA abundances shows that at high redshift DLA galaxies may well be the progenitors of normal spiral disks of all types from Sa through Sd. Towards lower redshifts z </= 1.5 however, early type spirals drop out of DLA samples due to low gas or/and high dust content. We use the spectrophotometric aspects of our unified spectral, chemical, and cosmological evolution models to predict expected luminosities in different bands for DLA galaxies at various redshifts and compare to the few optical identifications available. 
Certain perturbation graphs in the calculation of the effects of the medium on neutrino scattering in supernova matter have a nonintegrable singularity in a physical region. A number of papers have addressed the apparent pathology through an ansatz that invokes higher order (rescattering) effects. Taking the Gamow-Teller terms as an example, we display an expression for the spin-spin correlation function that determines the cross-sections. It is clear from the form that there are no pathologies in the order by order perturbation expansion. Explicit formulae are given for a simple case, leading to an answer that is very different from one given by other authors. 
The Virgo cluster galaxy NGC 4522 is one of the best spiral candidates for ICM-ISM stripping in action. Optical broadband and H-alpha images from the WIYN telescope of the highly inclined galaxy reveal a relatively undisturbed stellar disk and a peculiar distribution of H-alpha emission. Ten percent of the H-alpha emission arises from extraplanar HII regions which appear to lie within filamentary structures >3 kpc long above one side of the disk. The filaments emerge from the outer edge of a disk of bright H-alpha emission which is abruptly truncated beyond 0.35R(25). Together the truncated H-alpha disk and extraplanar H-alpha filaments are reminiscent of a bow shock morphology, which strongly suggests that the interstellar medium (ISM) of NGC 4522 is being stripped by the gas pressure of the intracluster medium (ICM). The galaxy has a line-of-sight velocity of 1300 km/sec with respect to the mean Virgo cluster velocity, and thus is expected to experience a strong interaction with the intracluster gas. The existence of HII regions apparently located above the disk plane suggests that star formation is occuring in the stripped gas, and that newly formed stars will enter the galaxy halo and/or intracluster space. The absence of HII regions in the disk beyond 0.35R(25), and the existence of HII regions in the stripped gas suggest that even molecular gas has been effectively removed from the disk of the galaxy. 
HST archival FOS spectra of 40 QSOs with z <= 0.5 in the Bright Quasar Survey have been analyzed. The spectra cover the region 1800-2000 A in the QSOs' rest frames, including the Al III 1859, Si III] 1892, C III] 1909, and Fe III UV34 emission-lines. We measured the flux of these UV emission-lines, and analyzed the correlations among UV and optical (H beta, Fe II, and [O III]) emission-line properties as well as soft X-ray photon indices. We found a significant correlation between Si III]/C III] and Fe II/H beta.   Si III and C III have similar ionization potentials, but Si III] has one order magnitude larger critical density than C III]. Si III]/C III] is thus a density indicator and becomes larger when density is higher. The correlation between Si III]/C III] and Fe II/H beta indicates that optical Fe II becomes strong when the density of the broad line region becomes high.   Our correlation analysis shows that large Si III]/C III] associates with weak [O III] 5007, large soft X-ray photon index, and narrow H beta width as well as with large Fe II/H beta. Our results support the previous suggestions that the density of the broad line region gas and the mass accretion rate govern this correlation. 
We present VLA maps of the Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC 7319 at 3.6, 6, and 20 cm. Sub-arcsecond resolution is achieved at 3.6 and 6 cm. The radio emission exhibits a triple structure on a scale of ~4'' (1.7 kpc). All three components have steep spectra, consistent with synchrotron radiation. We have also analyzed an HST archival, broad-band red image, which contains structure related to the radio components. In particular, a V-shaped feature in the HST image some 3.7'' (1.6 kpc) southwest of the nucleus is associated with highly blueshifted emission lines seen in ground-based spectra. We interpret the V-shaped feature as emission from gas compressed by the bow shock driven by the outwardly moving radio plasmoid. 
The neutrino energy emission rate due to formation of Cooper pairs of neutrons and protons in the superfluid cores of neutron stars is studied. The cases of singlet-state pairing with isotropic superfluid gap and triplet-state pairing with anisotropic gap are analysed. The neutrino emission due to singlet-state pairing of protons is found to be greatly suppressed with respect to the cases of singlet- and triplet-state pairings of neutrons. The neutrino emission due to pairing of neutrons is shown to be very important in the superfluid neutron-star cores with the standard neutrino luminosity and with the luminosity enhanced by the direct Urca process. It can greatly accelerate both, standard and enhanced, cooling of neutron stars with superfluid cores. This enables one to interpret the data on surface temperatures of six neutron stars, obtained by fitting the observed spectra with the hydrogen atmosphere models, by the standard cooling with moderate nucleon superfluidity. 
Accurate maps of Galactic reddening are important for a number of applications, such as mapping the peculiar velocity field in the nearby Universe. Of particular concern are systematic errors which vary slowly as a function of position on the sky, as these would induce spurious bulk flow. We have compared the reddenings of Burstein & Heiles (BH) and those of Schlegel, Finkbeiner & Davis (SFD) to independent estimates of the reddening, for Galactic latitudes |b| > 10. Our primary source of Galactic reddening estimates comes from comparing the difference between the observed B-V colors of early-type galaxies, and the predicted B-V color determined from the B-V--Mg_2 relation. We have fitted a dipole to the residuals in order to look for large-scale systematic deviations. There is marginal evidence for a dipolar residual in the comparison between the SFD maps and the observed early-type galaxy reddenings. If this is due to an error in the SFD maps, then it can be corrected with a small (13%) multiplicative dipole term. We argue, however, that this difference is more likely to be due to a small (0.01 mag.) systematic error in the measured B-V colors of the early-type galaxies. This interpretation is supported by a smaller, independent data set (globular cluster and RR Lyrae stars), which yields a result inconsistent with the early-type galaxy residual dipole. BH reddenings are found to have no significant systematic residuals, apart from the known problem in the region 230 < l < 310, -20 < b < 20. 
We review our analysis of the clustering properties of ``Lyman-break'' galaxies (LBGs) at redshift z~3, previously discussed in Wechsler et al (1998). We examine the likelihood of spikes found by Steidel et al (1998) in the redshift distribution of LBGs, within a suite of models for the evolution of structure in the Universe. Using high-resolution dissipationless N-body simulations, we analyze deep pencil-beam surveys from these models in the same way that they are actually observed, identifying LBGs with the most massive dark matter halos. We find that all the models (with SCDM as a marginal exception) have a substantial probability of producing spikes similar to those observed, because the massive halos are much more clumped than the underlying matter -- i.e., they are biased. Therefore, the likelihood of such a spike is not a good discriminator among these models. The LBG correlation functions are less steep than galaxies today (gamma~1.4), but show similar or slightly longer correlation lengths. We have extened this analysis and include a preliminary comparison to the new data presented in Adelberger et al (1998). We also discuss work in progress, in which we use semi-analytic models to identify Lyman-break galaxies within dark-matter halos. 
The velocity profiles of weak metal absorption lines can be used to observationally probe the kinematic state of gas in damped Lyman-alpha systems. Prochaska and Wolfe have argued that the flat distribution of velocity widths combined with the asymmetric line profiles indicate that the DLAS are disks with large rotation velocities. An alternative explanation has been proposed by Haehnelt, Steinmetz, and Rauch, in which the observed large velocity widths and asymmetric profiles can be produced by lines of sight passing through two or more clumps each having relatively small internal velocity dispersions. We investigate the plausibility of this scenario in the context of semi-analytic models based on hierarchical merging trees and including simple treatments of gas dynamics, star formation, supernova feedback, and chemical evolution. We find that all the observed properties of the metal-line systems including the distribution of velocities and the asymmetric profiles, can be reproduced by lines of sight passing through sub-clumps that are bound within larger virialized dark matter halos. In order to produce enough multiple hits, we find that the cold gas must be considerably more extended than the optical radius of the proto-galaxies, perhaps even beyond the tidal radius of the sub-halo. This could occur due to tidal stripping or supernova-driven outflows. 
Gamma rays of ~TeV energies from distant sources suffer attenuation due to pair production off of ~1 micron EBL photons. We may exploit this process in order to indirectly measure the EBL and constrain models of galaxy formation. Here, using semi-analytic models of galaxy formation, we examine how gamma ray absorption may be used as an indirect probe of the stellar initial mass function (IMF), although there is a degeneracy with dust modeling. We point out that with the new generation of gamma ray telescopes including STACEE, MAGIC, HESS, VERITAS, and Milagro, we should soon possess a wealth of new data and a new method for probing the nature of the IMF. 
Infrared Imaging Surveyor (IRIS) is a satellite which will be launched at the beginning of 2003. One of the main purposes of the IRIS mission is an all-sky survey in the far-infrared region with a flux limit much deeper than that of IRAS. Detection of a large number of galaxies ($\sim several \times 10^6$ in the whole sky) is expected in this survey. We investigated the expected optical and near-infrared (NIR) number counts of galaxies detected by the far-infrared scanner (FIS) of IRIS (hereafter, IRIS galaxies) and possibility of optical and NIR follow-up of them. The spectral energy distribution and the luminosity function of the IRIS galaxies are modeled based on the properties of galaxies observed by IRAS. The IRIS galaxies are divided into two populations according to their infrared luminosities ($L_{IR}$); normal spirals ($L_{IR}<10^{10}\LO$) and starbursts ($L_{IR}>10^{10}\LO$). The expected number counts of IRIS galaxies for both of the populations are calculated in $B$ and $H$ bands. We show that about 60 normal galaxies and about 80 starburst galaxies are detected per square degree in both of the two bands, when galaxy evolution is not taken into account. All of the normal population of IRIS galaxies are located at the redshift $z\ltsim 0.1$. As for the starburst population, we also calculated number of galaxies with a simple model of evolution. The total number of starburst population predicted by the evolution model is larger by 20% than that expected from the non-evolution model. In the evolution model, the numbers of low-z ($z<1$), intermediate-z ($1<z<3$), and high-z ($z>3$) galaxies are 100, 20, and 0.2 per square degree, respectively. 
We use an updated self-consistent kinetic/gasdynamic model of the solar wind/interstellar flow interaction to compute the Lyman-alpha absorption by hydrogen atoms of both interstellar and solar origin generated in the heliospheric interface. We apply this model to the direction of the star Sirius. We show that the neutralized, compressed solar wind from the heliosheath explains the extra absorption at positive redshifts observed in the Lyman-alpha line with the HST/GHRS. This removes the need for the interstellar hot gas previously proposed to explain this extra absorption. We also show that extra absorption in the blue wing can possibly be explained by H atoms formed in an astrosphere around Sirius, providing the stellar wind is at least as massive and fast as the solar wind. 
The solar system is moving through the partially ionized local interstellar cloud (LIC). The ionized matter of the LIC interacts with the expanding solar wind forming the heliospheric interface. The neutral component (interstellar atoms) penetrates through the heliospheric interface into the heliosphere, where it is measured directly "in situ" as pick-up ions and neutral atoms (and as anomalous cosmic rays) or indirectly through resonant scattering of solar Ly-alpha. When crossing the heliospheric interface, interstellar atoms interact with the plasma component through charge exchange. This interaction leads to changes of both neutral gas and plasma properties. The heliospheric interface is also the source of radio emissions which have been detected by the Voyager since 1983. In this paper, we have used a kinetic model of the flow of the interstellar atoms with updated values of velocity, temperature, and density of the circumsolar interstellar hydrogen and calculated how all quantities which are directly associated to the observations vary as a function of the interstellar proton number density. These quantities are the degree of filtration, the temperature and the velocity of the interstellar H atoms in the inner heliosphere, the distances to the bow shock (BS), heliopause, and termination shock, and the plasma frequencies in the LIC, at the BS and in the maximum compression region around the heliosphere which constitutes the "barrier" for radio waves formed in the interstellar medium. Comparing the model results with recent pickup ion data, Ly- alpha measurements, and low-frequencies radio emissions, we have searched for a number density of protons in the local interstellar cloud compatible with all observations. 
This is a short review of the methodology of static high pressure exeperiments in diamond anvil cells,and some of their possible applications an astrophysics.As the paper was originally published in 1993.,an addendum hints at some of the recent developements in the field. 
Detections of extragalactic $^{15}$N are reported from observations of the rare hydrogen cyanide isotope HC$^{15}$N toward the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) and the core of the (post-) starburst galaxy NGC 4945. Accounting for optical depth effects, the LMC data from the massive star-forming region N113 infer a $^{14}N/^{15}$N ratio of 111 $\pm$ 17, about twice the $^{12}C/^{13}$C value. For the LMC star-forming region N159HW and for the central region of NGC 4945, $^{14}N/^{15}$N ratios are also $\approx$ 100. The $^{14}N/^{15}$N ratios are smaller than all interstellar nitrogen isotope ratios measured in the disk and center of the Milky Way, strongly supporting the idea that $^{15}$N is predominantly of `primary' nature, with massive stars being its dominant source. Although this appears to be in contradiction with standard stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis calculations, it supports recent findings of abundant $^{15}$N production due to rotationally induced mixing of protons into the helium-burning shells of massive stars. 
We extend the formalism of the relativistic thermal and kinematic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effects and include the polarization of the cosmic microwave background photons. We consider the situation that a cluster of galaxies is moving with a velocity \vec{v} with respect to the cosmic microwave background radiation. In the present formalism, polarization of the scattered cosmic microwave background radiation caused by the proper motion of a cluster of galaxies is naturally derived as a special case of the kinematic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect. The relativistic corrections are included also in a natural way. Our results are in complete agreement with the recent results of the relativistic corrections obtained by Challinor, Ford and Lasenby with an entirely different method as well as the nonrelativistic limit obtained by Sunyaev and Zel'dovich. The relativistic correction becomes to be significant in the Wien region. 
After two decades of direct dynamical simulation of large-scale structure in the universe, it is safe to say the subject is now mature. Still, there are parts of the problem that are less well developed than others. In general, the collisionless dynamics of the dark matter component is better understood than the collisional gas dynamics of the baryonic component. In situations where the gas dynamics is relatively simple, such as the Lyman-$\alpha$ forest and the intracluster medium in X-ray clusters, our ability to reproduce observational data has evolved rapidly, and the interpretive and predictive power of such experiments should now be taken seriously. A comparison of twelve gas dynamic codes to the problem of forming a single X-ray cluster shows that numerical inaccuracies are modest (typically below ten percent), leaving missing physics as the main source for large systematic differences between theory and observation. Galaxy formation, being more complex, is farther behind in its development, but simulations capable of resolving the morphological range of the Hubble sequence in cosmologically interesting volumes may be just around the corner. 
Using a simple model of molecular cloud evolution, we have quantitatively estimated the change of star formation rate (SFR) of a disk galaxy falling radially into the potential well of a cluster of galaxies. The SFR is affected by the ram-pressure from the intracluster medium (ICM). As the galaxy approaches the cluster center, the SFR increases to twice the initial value, at most, in a cluster with high gas density and deep potential well, or with a central pressure of $\sim 10^{-2} cm^{-3} keV$ because the ram-pressure compresses the molecular gas of the galaxy. However, this increase does not affect the color of the galaxy significantly. Further into the central region of the cluster ($\lesssim 1$ Mpc from the center), the SFR of the disk component drops rapidly due to the effect of ram-pressure stripping. This makes the color of the galaxy redder and makes the disk dark. These effects may explain the observed color, morphology distribution and evolution of galaxies in high-redshift clusters. By contrast, in a cluster with low gas density and shallow potential well, or the central pressure of $\sim 10^{-3} cm^{-3} keV$, the SFR of a radially infalling galaxy changes less significantly, because neither ram-pressure compression nor stripping is effective. Therefore, the color of galaxies in poor clusters is as blue as that of field galaxies, if other environmental effects such as galaxy-galaxy interaction are not effective. The predictions of the model are compared with observations. 
We discuss an alternative approach to constrain the absolute bolometric luminosity of Zero Age Horizontal Branch structures by using the observational pulsational properties of ab type RR Lyrae stars and theoretical expectations concerning both the relation connecting the pulsational properties of these variables to their evolutionary ones, as luminosity, mass and effective temperature and, also the location in the H-R diagram for the fundamental pulsators instability strip boundaries. Since the main goal of this work is to obtain an evaluation of the ZAHB bolometric luminosity as much as possible independent on stellar evolution theory, we have minimized the use of evolutionary prescriptions, being the only adopted evolutionary input the allowed mass range for fundamental pulsators. Nevertheless, the effects on our final results related to the use of these evolutionary prescriptions have been carefully checked. The reliability of the suggested method to obtain the ZAHB luminosity is shown by applying it to a selected sample of globular clusters (GCs), whose heavy elements abundance covers almost all the complete GCs metallicity range. The results obtained for the ZAHB bolometric luminosities have been compared with evolutionary prescriptions on such quite important quantity as given by recent evolutionary computations has been also performed. The existence of evident mismatches between current results and some evolutionary models has been verified and discussed. 
We present new near-infrared (rest-frame UV-to-optical) spectra of the high redshift, gravitationally lensed quasar B 1422+231 (z=3.62). Diagnostic emission lines of FeII, [OIII]5007, and Hb, commonly used to determine the excitation, ionization, and chemical abundances of radio-quiet and radio-loud quasars, were detected. Our new data show that the ratio FeII(UV)/Hb=18.1+-4.6 and FeII(optical)/Hb=2.3+-0.6 are higher than those reported by Kawara et al. (1996) by factors of 1.6 and 3.3, respectively, although the ration [OIII]5007/Hb=0.19+-0.02 is nearly the same between the two measurements. The discrepancy of the line flux ratios between the measurements is likely due to improved data and fitting procedures rather that to intrinsic variability. While approximately half of the high-z quasars observed to date have much more extreme FeII(optical)/Hb ratios, the line ratio measured for B 422+231 are consistent with the observed range of FeII(optical) ratios of low-z quasars. 
We performed numerical simulations of stellar occultations by extra-solar cometary tails. We find that extra-solar comets can be detected by the apparent photometric variations of the central stars. In most cases, the light curve shows a very peculiar ``rounded triangular'' shape. However, in some other cases, the curve can mimic a planetary occultation. Photometric variations due to comet occultations are mainly achromatic. Nevertheless, if comets with small periastrons have smaller particles, these occultations could be chromatic with a larger extinction in the blue by few percents.   We also estimate the number of detections expected in a large photometric survey at high accuracy. By the observation of several tens of thousand of stars, it should be possible to detect several hundreds of occultation per year. We thus conclude that a spatial photometric survey would detect a large number of extra-solar comets. This would allow to explore the time evolution of cometary activity, and consequently would probe structure and evolution of extra-solar planetary systems. 
Performing 1D hydrodynamical calculations coupled with non-equilibrium processes for H2 formation, we pursue the thermal and dynamical evolution of filamentary primordial clouds and attempt to make an estimate on the mass of population III stars. It is found that, almost independent of initial conditions, a filamentary cloud continues to collapse nearly isothermally due to H_2 cooling until the cloud becomes optically thick against the H_2 lines. During the collapse the cloud structure separates into two parts, i.e., a denser spindle and a diffuse envelope. The spindle contracts quasi-statically, and thus the line mass of the spindle keeps a characteristic value determined solely by the temperature ($\sim 800$ K). Applying a linear theory, we find that the spindle is unstable against fragmentation during the collapse. The wavelength of the fastest growing perturbation lessens as the collapse proceeds. Consequently, successive fragmentation could occur. When the central density exceeds $n_c \sim 10^{10-11} cm^{-3}$, the successive fragmentation may cease since the cloud becomes opaque against the H_2 lines and the collapse decelerates appreciably. The mass of the first star is then expected to be typically $\sim 3 M_\odot$, which may grow up to $\sim 16 M_\odot$ by accreting the diffuse envelope. Thus, the first-generation stars are anticipated to be massive but not supermassive. 
We consider a black hole accreting spherically from the surrounding medium. If accretion produces a luminosity close to the Eddington limit the hole acquires a net charge so that electrons and ions can fall with the same velocity. The condition for the electrostatic field to be large enough to break the vacuum near the hole horizon translates into an upper limit for the hole mass, $M\sim 6.6\times 10^{20} {\rm g}.$ The astrophysical conditions under which this phaenomenon can take place are rather extreme, but in principle they could be met by a mini black hole residing at the center of a star. 
After the recombination of Hydrogen, primordial molecules such as H_2,   $HD$ can be formed.The formation of structures in the post-recombination gaseous medium is commonly explained by primordial density fluctuations. In a self-gravitating collapsing cloud, temperature tends to increase with contraction. In this context molecular lines emissions can play an important role in the thermal balance of collapsing molecular clouds and in the dynamics of collapsing proto-cloud.   We calculate analytically the molecular cooling due to H_2 and $HD$. Our analysis is done under the hypothesis we consider only the first two excited levels of the H_2 and $HD$ molecules. The potentiality of fragmentation of collapsing protoclouds through the thermal instability is discussed. Finally we suggest that this study could also be extended to the $CO$ molecule. 
We report on ROSAT and ASCA observations of the LINER NGC1052, which is the first one where broad optical lines in polarized light have been observed. The 2-10 keV spectrum is very flat, with an observed photon index (Gamma) ~0.1. A model where a nuclear source is - partly or totally - obscured by a screen of matter with column density ~10^23 atom/cm/cm is the most convincing explanation for the observed flatness. This agrees with the hypothesis that the LINERs are a population of low-luminosity AGN, to which the Seyfert unification scenario applies. The intrinsic spectral index is still rather flat (1.0-1.4), as observed in a few type-2 Seyferts so far or predicted if the accretion occurs in an advection-dominated flow. 
We report on an RXTE/PCA observation of Aql X-1 during its outburst in March 1997 in which, immediately following a Type-I burst, the broad-band 2-10 keV flux decreased by about 10% and the kilohertz QPO frequency decreased from 813+-3 Hz to 776+-4 Hz. This change in kHz QPO frequency is much larger than expected from a simple extrapolation of a frequency-flux correlation established using data before the burst. Meanwhile a very low frequency noise (VLFN) component in the broad-band FFT power spectra with a fractional root-mean-square (rms) amplitude of 1.2% before the burst ceased to exist after the burst. All these changes were accompanied by a change in the energy spectral shape. If we characterize the energy spectra with a model composed of two blackbody (BB) components and a power law component, almost all the decrease in flux was in the two BB components. We attribute the two BB components to the contributions from a region very near the neutron star or even the neutron star itself and from the accretion disk, respectively. 
We derive a simple closed-form expression, relating $\vs(r)$ -- the mean relative velocity of pairs of galaxies at fixed separation $r$ -- to the two-point correlation function of mass density fluctuations, $\xi(r)$. We compare our analytic model for $\vs(r)$ with N-body simulations, and find excellent agreement in the entire dynamical range probed by the simulations ($0.1 \lsim \xi \lsim 1000$). Our results can be used to estimate the cosmological density parameter, $\Om$, directly from redshift-distance surveys, like Mark III. 
We present a new geometrical method which uses weak gravitational lensing effects in clusters to constrain the cosmological parameters Omega and Lambda. On each background galaxy, a cluster induces a convergence and a shear terms, which depend on the cluster projected potential, and on the cosmological parameters (Omega,Lambda), through the angular distance ratio D_{LS}/D_{OS}. To disentangle the effects of these three quantities, we compare the relative values of the ellipticities for each triplet of galaxies located at about the same position in the lens plane, but having different color redshifts. The simultaneous knowledge of the ellipticities and photometric redshifts enable to build a purely geometrical estimator of (Omega,Lambda) which does not depend on the lens potential.A calculation and comparison of each source of statistical noise is performed. We also analyzed the systematics.Simulations lead to encouraging constraints on the curvature of the Universe and can discriminate an open from a flat Universe. The test can also provide constraints on Lambda. By using 20 VLT nights to observe 100 clusters, we can reach Lambda_{-0.2}^{+0.3} for \Omega+\Lambda=1, or Omega_{-0.25}^{+0.3} for \Lambda=0. The method is even better adapted to a large program on the NGST. 
We derive the rates of capture, Ndot, of main sequence turn off stars by the central massive black hole in a sample of galaxies from Magorrian et al. 1998. The disruption rates are smaller than previously believed with Ndot ~ 10^-4 - 10^-7 per galaxy. A correlation between Ndot and black hole mass, M, is exploited to estimate the rate of tidal disruptions in the local universe. Assuming that all or most galaxies have massive black holes in their nuclei, this rate should be dominated by sub-Lstar galaxies. The rate of tidal disruptions could be high enough to be detected in supernova (or similar) monitoring campaigns---we estimate the rate of tidal disruptions to be 0.01 - 0.1 times the supernova rate. We have also estimated the rates of disruption of red giants, which may be significant (Ndot ~> 10^-4 y^-1 per galaxy) for M ~> 10^8 Msun, but are likely to be harder to observe---only of order 10^-4 times the supernova rate in the local universe. In calculating capture rates, we advise caution when applying scaling formulae by other authors, which are not applicable in the physical regime spanned by the galaxies considered here. 
Investigation of gaseous and stellar kinematics and of broad-band VRI and narrow-band H-alpha and [NII]6583 images is performed for the central part (R < 4 kpc) of the regular spiral galaxy NGC 2841. We have found emission-line splitting at R < 20" and three-component LOSVD for the stars in the radius range 6" - 100". Morphological analysis reveals strong narrow shock fronts close to the major axis in the radius range of 30" - 50", a turn of the isophote major axis by 5 degrees and strongly negative Fourier coefficient a4 (boxy isophotes) in the radius range of 15" - 33". In principle, all these features may be explained in the frame of a triaxial bulge hypothesis. 
We estimate the dipole of the diffuse 1.5 keV X-ray background from the ROSAT all-sky survey map of Snowden et al (1995). We first subtract the diffuse Galactic emission by fitting to the data an exponential scale height, finite radius, disk model. We further exclude regions of low galactic latitudes, of local X-ray emission (eg the North Polar Spur) and model them using two different methods. We find that the ROSAT X-ray background (XRB) dipole points towards $(l,b) ~ (288, 25) \pm 19 degrees within 30 degrees of the CMB dipole. Its direction is also in good agreement with the HEAO1 X-ray dipole at harder energies. The normalised amplitude of the ROSAT XRB dipole is about 1.7 per cent. Subtracting from the ROSAT map the expected X-ray background dipole due to the reflex motion of the observer with respect to the cosmic rest frame (Compton-Geting effect) we find the large-scale dipole of the X-ray emitting extragalactic sources having an amplitude 90% of the total XRB, in general agreement with the predictions of Lahav et al (1997). We finally estimate that the Virgo cluster is responsible for about 20 per cent of the total measured XRB dipole amplitude. 
We present photoionization models accounting for both photoelectric and resonant absorption. Resonance absorption lines from C, O, Ne, Mg, Si S and Fe between 0.1 and 10 keV are treated. In particular we consider the complex of almost 60 strong Fe L absorption lines around 1 keV. We calculate profiles, intensities and equivalent widths of each line, considering both Doppler and natural broadening mechanisms. Doppler broadening includes a term accounting for turbulence of the gas along the line of sight. We computed spectra transmitted by gas illuminated by drastically different ionizing continua and compared them to spectra observed in flat X-ray spectrum, broad optical emission line type 1 AGN, and steep X-ray spectrum, narrow optical emission line type 1 AGN. We show that the $\sim 1$ keV absorption feature observed in moderate resolution X-ray spectra of several Narrow Line Seyfert 1 galaxies can be explained by photoionization models, taking into account for resonance absorption, without requiring relativistic outflowing velocities of the gas, if the physical properties of these absorbers are close to those found in flat X-ray spectrum Seyfert 1 galaxies. 
Gamma-ray burst counterpart studies require small, prompt error boxes. Today, there are several missions which can provide them: BeppoSAX, the Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer, and the 3rd Interplanetary Network. In the near future, HETE-II, a possible extended Interplanetary Network, and INTEGRAL will operate in this capacity. In the longer term future, a dedicated gamma-ray burst MIDEX mission may fly. The capabilities of these missions are reviewed, comparing the number of bursts, the rapidity of the localizations, and the error box sizes. 
We present a 90 per cent flux-complete sample of the 201 X-ray brightest clusters of galaxies in the northern hemisphere (dec > 0 deg), at high Galactic latitudes (|b| > 20 deg), with measured redshifts z < 0.3 and fluxes higher than 4.4 x 10^(-12) erg cm^(-2) s^{-1) in the 0.1-2.4 keV band. The sample, called the ROSAT Brightest Cluster Sample (BCS), is selected from ROSAT All-Sky Survey data and is the largest X-ray selected cluster sample compiled to date. In addition to Abell clusters, which form the bulk of the sample, the BCS also contains the X-ray brightest Zwicky clusters and other clusters selected from their X-ray properties alone. Effort has been made to ensure the highest possible completeness of the sample and the smallest possible contamination by non-cluster X-ray sources. X-ray fluxes are computed using an algorithm tailored for the detection and characterization of X-ray emission from galaxy clusters. These fluxes are accurate to better than 15 per cent (mean 1 sigma error).   We find the cumulative log N-log S distribution of clusters to follow a power law k S^(-alpha) with alpha=1.31 (+0.06)(-0.03) (errors are the 10th and 90th percentiles) down to fluxes of 2 x 10^(-12) erg cm^(-2) s^(-1), i.e. considerably below the BCS flux limit. Although our best-fitting slope disagrees formally with the canonical value of -1.5 for a Euclidean distribution, the BCS log N-log S distribution is consistent with a non-evolving cluster population if cosmological effects are taken into account. 
Since the initial discoveries with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) in 1996 of kilohertz quasi-periodic oscillations (kHz QPOs) and burst oscillations in a number of low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs) containing low-magnetic-field neutron stars, a very active field has developed. I briefly summarize some of the developments since those early days, which include the discovery of the first accreting millisecond pulsar, further claims of the detection of strong-field general-relativistic effects, intriguing correlations of the kHz QPO properties with QPOs at lower frequencies, strong challenges for the beat-frequency interpretation of the twin kHz QPO peaks and a number of new theoretical ideas, some of which involving frame dragging. Twenty LMXBs have now been seen to exhibit periodic or quasi-periodic phenomena with frequencies exceeding 10^2.5 Hz. Although the commensurabilities between the observed frequencies that suggest a beat-frequency interpretation have conclusively been shown to be not precise, the preponderance of the evidence still is in favour of the idea that there exists some kind of beat-frequency relation between the twin kHz peaks. However, that evidence is only coming from 4 of the 17 sources showing twin kHz QPOs. 
In a global kinematical study of NGC 5055 using high resolution Fabry-Perot, intriguing spectral line profiles have been observed in the center of the galaxy. These profiles seem to indicate a rapidly rotating disk with a radius near 365 pc and tilted 50 $\deg$ with respect to the major axis of the galaxy. In the hypothesis of a massive dark object, a naive keplerian estimate gives a mass around $10^7.2$ to $10^7.5 M_\odot$. The limited spectral domain of the Fabry-Perot leaves some ambiguity on the exact movement and velocity of this H$\alpha$ emission. 2-D spectroscopy with a larger spectral range (eg.: TIGRE, OASIS) is thus required. 
A new class of X-ray sources was clearly established with the discovery of highly relativistic radio jets from the galactic sources GRS 1915+105 and GRO J1655-40. Both of these objects have given us a broader view of black holes and the formation of jets, yet they also show the complexity of the accretion environment near relativistic objects. The fast apparent motion of the jets, their luminosity and variability, their high energy spectrum, and approximate scaling to the behavior of active galactic nuclei, certainly warrant the description "microquasar". I present a review of the observational data on these sources, and discuss where we stand on a physical picture of GRS 1915+105 and GRO J1655-40 as taken from multi-wavelength studies. I also point out other galactic sources which share some of the properties of the microquasars, and what to look for as a high energy "signature" in future observations. 
We obtain the maximum diffuse neutrino intensity predicted by hadronic photoproduction models of the type which have been applied to the jets of active galactic nuclei or gamma ray bursts. For this, we compare the proton and gamma ray fluxes associated with hadronic photoproduction in extragalactic neutrino sources with the present experimental upper limit on cosmic ray protons and the extragalactic gamma ray background, employing a transport calculation of energetic protons traversing cosmic photon backgrounds. We take into account the effects of the photon spectral shape in the sources on the photoproduction process, cosmological source evolution, the optical depth for cosmic ray ejection, and discuss the possible effects of magnetic fields in the vicinity of the sources. For photohadronic neutrino sources which are optically thin to the emission of neutrons we find that the cosmic ray flux imposes a stronger bound than the extragalactic gamma ray background in the energy range between 10^5 GeV and 10^11 GeV, as previously noted by Waxman & Bahcall (1999). We also determine the maximum contribution from the jets of active galactic nuclei, using constraints set to their neutron opacity by gamma-ray observations. This present upper limit is consistent with the jets of active galactic nuclei producing the extragalactic gamma ray background hadronically, but we point out future observations in the GeV-to-TeV regime could lower this limit. We also briefly discuss the contribution of gamma ray bursts to ultra-high energy cosmic rays as it can be inferred from possible observations or limits on their correlated neutrino fluxes. 
We present here the extragalactic background light (EBL) predicted by semi-analytic models of galaxy formation, and show how measurements of the absorption of gamma rays of $\sim$ TeV energies via pair production on the EBL can probe cosmology and the formation of galaxies. Semi-analytic models permit a physical treatment of the key processes of galaxy formation -- including gravitational collapse and merging of dark matter halos, gas cooling and dissipation, star formation, supernova feedback and metal production -- and have been shown to reproduce key observations at low and high redshift. Using this approach, we investigate the consequences of variations in input assumptions such as the stellar initial mass function and the underlying cosmology. We conclude that observational studies of the absorption of $\sim 10^{-2}-10^{2}$ TeV gamma rays will help to constrain the star formation history of the universe, and the nature and extent of the extinction of starlight due to dust and reradiation of the absorbed energy at infrared wavelengths. 
We consider the dependence of the internal structure of a neutron star in a close binary system on the semi-major axis of the binary orbit, focusing on the case when the Roche lobes of the components are nearly filled. We adopt a polytropic equation of state. The temporal evolution of the semi-major axis and its dependence on the mass ratio of the binary components and the polytropic index are determined. The calculation are carried out right up to the moment of contact, when quasi-stationary model becomes invalid. We analyze differences in the shapes of the pulses of gravitational radiation emitted by a pair of point masses and by a binary neutron star, taking into account its internal structure and tidal deformations. 
We present here the first infrared spectra of meteoritic SiC grains. The mid-infrared transmission spectra of meteoritic SiC grains isolated from the Murchison meteorite were measured in the wavelength range 2.5--16.5 micron, in order to make available the optical properties of presolar SiC grains. These grains are most likely stellar condensates with an origin predominately in carbon stars. Measurements were performed on two different extractions of presolar SiC from the Murchison meteorite. The two samples show very different spectral appearance due to different grain size distributions. The spectral feature of the smaller meteoritic SiC grains is a relatively broad absorption band found between the longitudinal and transverse lattice vibration modes around 11.3 micron, supporting the current interpretation about the presence of SiC grains in carbon stars. In contrast to this, the spectral feature of the large (> 5 micron) grains has an extinction minimum around 10 micron. The obtained spectra are compared with commercially available SiC grains and the differences are discussed. This comparison shows that the crystal structure (e.g., beta-SiC versus alpha-SiC) of SiC grains plays a minor role on the optical signature of SiC grains compared to e.g. grain size. 
Recent progress in the quantitative analysis of Wolf-Rayet stars is reviewed, emphasising the role played by choice of spectral diagnostics, clumping and line blanketing on derived stellar properties. The ionizing properties of WR stars are discussed, based on clumped, line blanketed models for WN and WC stars. The role of metallicity and mass-loss is assessed, and the role of HII regions as probes of predicted Lyman continuum distributions. Suggestions are made for differences in observed properties of WCE and WO subtypes. 
The only microlensing events towards the Magellanic Clouds for which the location of the lens is strongly constrained are the two binary caustic crossing events. In at least one and possibly both cases, the lens lies at, or close to, the clouds themselves. On the face of it, this seems an improbable occurrence if the Galactic dark halo provides the bulk of the lensing population, as suggested by standard analyses of the MACHO dataset towards the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). We use a binomial statistic to assess the prior probability of observing $M$ non-halo binary caustic events given a total sample of $N$ caustic binaries. We generalize for the case of multi-component Galactic and Magellanic Cloud models the Bayesian likelihood method for determining the lens mass and halo fraction from the observed timescales. We introduce a new statistic, the ``outcome discriminator'', which measures the consistency between the binary caustic data, prior expectation, and the MACHO LMC dataset as a whole. If the clouds are not embedded in their own dark halos of MACHOs, then the discovery of two non-halo caustic binary events out of two ($M = N = 2$) is inconsistent with expectation given the MACHO dataset. Galactic models in which $M = 1$ is the likeliest outcome are also inconsistent with the data, though models in which $M = 1$ has a reasonable prior probability are not. We consider the possibilities that the Magellanic Clouds are embedded in dark haloes of their own, or that the Galactic halo is intrinsically deficient in the binary systems which produce caustic crossing events. Either of these possibilities provide greater compatibility between observation and prior expectation, though the idea of Magellanic haloes is perhaps the more natural of the two and has support from kinematical studies. 
We determine the velocity distribution and space density of a volume complete sample of A and F stars, using parallaxes and proper motions from the Hipparcos satellite. We use these data to solve for the gravitational potential vertically in the local Galactic disc, by comparing the Hipparcos measured space density with predictions from various disc models. We derive an estimate of the local dynamical mass density of 0.102 +/- 0.010 solar masses per cubic parsec which may be compared to an estimate of 0.095 solar masses per cubic parsec in visible disc matter. Our estimate is found to be in reasonable agreement with other estimates by Creze et al. and Pham, also based on Hipparcos data. We conclude that there is no compelling evidence for significant amounts of dark matter in the disc. 
We report the COMPTEL detection of pulsed $\gamma$-emission from PSR B1509-58 up to at least 10 MeV using data collected over more than 6 years. The 0.75-10 MeV lightcurve is broad and reaches its maximum near radio-phase 0.38, slightly beyond the maximum found at hard X-rays/ soft $\gamma$-rays. In the 10-30 MeV energy range a strong source is present in the skymap positionally consistent with the pulsar, but we do not detect significant pulsed emission. However, the lightcurve is consistent with the pulse shape changing from a single broad pulse into a double-peak morphology. Our results significantly constrain pulsar modelling. 
This paper is the fourth of a series dealing with the cluster of galaxies ABCG 85. Using our two extensive photometric and spectroscopic catalogues (with 4232 and 551 galaxies respectively), we discuss here three topics derived from optical data. First, we present the properties of emission line versus non-emission line galaxies, showing that their spatial distributions somewhat differ; emission line galaxies tend to be more concentrated in the south region where groups appear to be falling onto the main cluster, in agreement with the hypothesis (presented in our previous paper) that this infall may create a shock which can heat the X-ray emitting gas and also enhance star formation in galaxies. Then, we analyze the luminosity function in the R band, which shows the presence of a dip similar to that observed in other clusters at comparable absolute magnitudes; this result is interpreted as due to comparable distributions of spirals, ellipticals and dwarfs in these various clusters. Finally, we present the dynamical analysis of the cluster using parametric and non-parametric methods and compare the dynamical mass profiles obtained from the X-ray and optical data. 
Three independent predictions follow from postulating the existence of protons co-accelerated with electrons in extragalactic jets (i) multi-TeV gamma ray emission from nearby blazars, (ii) extragalactic cosmic ray protons up to 10^20 eV, and (iii) extragalactic neutrinos up to 5 10^18 eV. Recent gamma ray observations of Mrk 421 and Mrk 501 employing the air-Cerenkov technique are consistent with the predicted gamma ray spectrum, if one corrects for pair attenuation on the infrared background. Prediction (ii) is consistent with cosmic ray data, if one requires that jets are responsible for at least a sizable fraction of the extragalactic gamma ray background. With kubic kilometer neutrino telescopes, it will be possible to test (iii), although the muon event rates are rather low. Neutrino oscillations can increase the event rate by inducing tau-cascades removing the Earth shadowing effect. 
We report the detection of pulsed X-ray emission ($4.9\sigma$) from the binary millisecond pulsar PSR J0218+4232 in a 100 ks ROSAT HRI observation. The pulse profile shows a sharp main pulse and an indication for a second weaker pulse at $\sim$ 0.47 phase separation. The pulsed fraction is 37 \pm 13%. PSR J0218+4232 was several times in the field of view of the high-energy $\gamma$-ray telescope EGRET and a source positionally consistent with the pulsar was detected above 100 MeV. Spatial and timing analyses of EGRET data indicate that the source is probably multiple: Between 0.1 GeV and 1 GeV PSR J0218+4232 is the most likely counterpart, while the BL Lac 3C66A is the best candidate above 1 GeV. If part of the EGRET signal truly belongs to the pulsar, then this would be the first millisecond $\gamma$-ray pulsar. 
We present follow-up spectroscopy to the Calar Alto Deep Imaging Survey (CADIS), reporting on the quasars in the CADIS 16h-field, and including preliminary data from two other fields. In this 10' x 10' field we found six quasars at redshift z>2.2 which are brighter than R=22 mag, while surface densities determined in previous surveys are reported to be below one on average. This is the highest reported surface density of high-redshift quasars within the given limits. We believe this result to be a consequence of the multicolor database and the search technique used in CADIS.   Our observations further seem to indicate that the density of high-redshift quasars is also higher than predicted by the luminosity function of Warren (1994) by a factor of three, implying that common search methods have overlooked the majority of high-redshift quasars at this magnitude level. In particular, an application of the V/V max test to our preliminary list of AGNs with R<22 mag and z<4 yields <V/V max> = 0.51 +-0.06, characterizing our preliminary redshift distribution as flat. 
Detection and analysis of Wolf-Rayet (WR) star populations in young starbursts is a powerful tool to reveal the properties of the star-forming events. We present new high S/N optical spectra of a sample of well-known WR galaxies, in which we detected for the first time the spectral signature of WC stars. The detailed comparison of WN and WC star populations derived in these galaxies, with the most recent model predictions, allows to put tight constraints on starburst parameters, such as the age and duration of the burts, and the IMF. 
The study of primordial chemistry of molecules adresses a number of interesting questions pertaining to the thermal balance of collapsing molecular protoclouds. In numerous astrophysical cases molecular cooling and heating influence dynamical evolution of the medium. The existence of a significant abundance of molecules can be crucial on the dynamical evolution of collapsing objects. Because the cloud temperature increases with contraction, a cooling mechanism can be important for the structure formation, by lowering pressure opposing gravity, i.e. by allowing continued collapse of Jeans unstable protoclouds. This is particularly true for the first generation of objects. It has been suggested that a finite amount of molecules such as $H_2$, $HD$ and $LiH$ can be formed immediately after the recombination of cosmological hydrogen (Lepp and Shull 1984, Puy et al 1993). The cosmological fractional abundance $HD/H_2$ is small. Nevertheless, the presence of a non-zero permanent electric dipole moment makes $HD$ a potentially more important coolant than $H_2$ at modest temperatures, although $HD$ is much less abundant than $H_2$. Recently Puy and Signore (1997) showed that during the early stages of gravitational collapse, for some collapsing masses, $HD$ molecules were the main cooling agent when the collapsing protostructure had a temperature of about 200 Kelvins. Thus, we analytically estimate the molecular cooling during the collapse of protoclouds Then, the possibility of thermal instability during the early phase of gravitational collapse is discussed. 
We present the counts of luminous submillimeter (sub-mm) galaxies from an analysis of our survey of the distant Universe through lensing clusters, which uses massive cluster lenses with well-constrained mass models to magnify the background sky. This both increases the sensitivity and reduces the effects of source confusion. Accurate lens models are used to correct the observed sub-mm source counts. The associated uncertainties do not dominate the final errors. We derive counts by two independent methods: a direct inversion of the observed sources, corrected individually for lens amplification; and a Monte-Carlo simulation of our observations using a parametric model for the background counts, which is folded through the lens models and incompleteness estimates to determine best-fitting values of the count parameters. Both methods agree well and confirm the robustness of our analysis. Detections that are optically identified with galaxies in the lensing clusters are removed prior to our analysis, and the results are insensitive both to the details of the correction and to the redshift distribution of the detections. We present 850-micron counts between 0.5 and 8 mJy. The most accurate count is determined at 1 mJy: 7900 +- 3000 deg^-2, including both Poisson and systematic errors. These are the deepest sub-mm counts published, and are not subject to source confusion because the detected galaxies are separated and magnified by the lens. Down to the 0.5-mJy limit, the resolved 850-micron background radiation intensity is (0.5 +- 0.2) nW m^{-2} sr^{-1}, comparable to the current COBE estimate of the background, and so the bulk of the 850-micron background radiation originated in distant ultraluminous galaxies. 
Two frequency observations, mainly at 1.4 and 5 GHz from the VLA, have been used to study spectral variations along the lobes of some nearby low luminosity radio galaxies that constitute a representative sample selected from the B2 catalogue. The variations of the spectral index have been interpreted as being due to synchrotron and inverse Compton losses and characteristic spectral ages are deduced for the relativistic electrons. The radiative ages are in the range of several 10^7 years. These ages correlate well with the source sizes. They also appear to be consistent with dynamical ages determined from ram-pressure arguments, if we make reasonable assumptions about the ambient gas density and allow for very moderate deviations from the equipartition conditions. There appears to be a significant difference between the radiative ages of sources in our sample and those of more powerful 3CR radio sources. We briefly discuss the possibility of re-acceleration processes and indicate some objects where these may occur. 
Proc. IX. Workshop on Nuclear Astrophysics, Ringberg Castle, Tegernsee, Bavaria; March 1998 
A class of extremely luminous high-redshift galaxies has recently been detected in unbiased submillimetre-wave surveys using the Submillimetre Common-User Bolometer Array (SCUBA) camera at the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope. Most of the luminosity of these galaxies is emitted from warm interstellar dust grains, and they could be the high-redshift counterparts of the low-redshift ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs). Only one - SMM J02399-0136 - has yet been studied in detail. Three other very luminous high-redshift dusty galaxies with well determined spectral energy distributions in the mid-infrared waveband are known - IRAS F10214+4724, H1413+117 and APM 08279+5255. These were detected serendipitously rather than in unbiased surveys, and are all gravitationally lensed by a foreground galaxy. Two - H 1413+117 and APM 08279+5255 - appear to emit a significantly greater fraction of their luminosity in the mid-infrared waveband as compared with both low-redshift ULIRGs and high-redshift submillimetre-selected galaxies. This can be explained by a systematically greater lensing magnification of hotter regions of the source as compared with cooler regions: differential magnification. This effect can confuse the interpretation of the properties of distant ultraluminous galaxies that are lensed by intervening galaxies, but offers a possible way to investigate the temperature distribution of dust in their nuclei on scales of tens of parsecs. 
In this article we use "Scenario Machine" - the population synthesis simulator- to calculate the evolution of the populations of the selected types of X-ray sources after the starformation burst with the total mass in binaries $1.5\cdot10^6 M_{\odot}$ during the first 20 Myr after the burst. Sources of the four types were calculated: transient sources- accreting neutron stars with Be- stars; accreting neutron stars in pair with supergiants; Cyg X-1-like sources- black holes with supergiants; superaccreting black holes. We used two values of the $\alpha - coefficient$ in the mass-function: 2.35 (Salpeter's function) and 1.01 ("flat spectrum"). The calculations were made for two values of the upper limit of the mass-function: 120 and 30 $M_{\odot}$. For the flat spectrum the number of sources of all types significantly increased. Decreasing of the upper mass limit below the critical mass of a black hole formation increase (for the "flat spectrum") the number of transient sources with neutron stars up to $\approx 300$. We give approximating formulae for the time dependence of source numbers. 
We present an analysis of the 2-point correlation function, of the X-ray Brightest Abell-type Cluster sample (XBACs; Ebeling et al. 1998) and of the cosmological constraints that it provides. If \xi(r) is modelled as a power-law, we find r_0=26.0 +/- 4.5 Mpc/h and \gamma=2.0 +/-0.4, with errors corresponding to 2\sigma uncertainties. Only a marginal increase of the correlation amplitude is found as the flux limit is increased from 5x10^{-12} cgs to 12x10^{-12} cgs, thus indicating a weak dependence of the correlation amplitude on the cluster X-ray luminosity. Furthermore, we present a method to predict correlation functions for flux-limited X-ray cluster samples from cosmological models. The method is based on the analytical recipe by Mo & White (1996) and on an empirical approach to convert cluster fluxes into masses. We use a maximum-likelihood method to place constraints on the model parameter space. We find that the shape parameter of the power spectrum lies in the 2\sigma range 0.05<\Gamma<0.20. As for the amplitude of the power-spectrum, we find \sigma_8 in the range 0.4-0.8 for \Omega_0=1 and 0.8-2.0 for \Omega_0=0.3. This result is in agreement with, although less constraining than, results based on the local cluster abundance. 
The lack of our knowledge on how angular momentum is transported in accretion disks around black holes has prevented us from fully understanding their high energy emissions. We briefly highlight some theoretical models, emphasizing the energy flow and electron energization processes. More questions and uncertainties are raised from a plasma physics point of view. 
The recent BeppoSAX observations of the BL Lac objects Mkn 501 and 1ES 2344+514 have shown that the synchrotron spectrum of these objects peaks, in a v-vF(v) representation, at energies at or above 100 keV. One can wonder if these are the most extreme examples of hard synchrotron blazars, or if they are the first cases of a more numerous class of sources. Here I propose the existence of a class of even more extreme BL Lac objects, whose synchrotron spectrum peaks at or above 1 MeV. Based on the observational trend found between the location of the synchrotron peak and the bolometric power of BL Lac objects, it is argued that the proposed extreme sources could have escaped detection (in any band) so far, or could have been classified as galaxies, and their "BL Lac-ness" could be revealed by INTEGRAL. 
The past 20 years have seen phenomenal progress in our understanding of BL Lac objects. They form part of the blazar class, which are radio-loud AGN whose relativistic jets are aligned along our line of sight. Several critical milestones have helped establish this picture, first proposed at the Pittsburgh BL Lac meeting 20 years ago, most recently the EGRET and TeV detections of beamed gamma-ray emission. The spectral energy distributions are double peaked and follow a self-similar sequence in luminosity, which can be explained by electron cooling on ambient photons. This simple paradigm has yet to be tested, and further questions remain, notably about physical conditions in blazar jets --- the kinetic power, magnetic energy density, acceleration time scales, proton content, etc. --- and how this energy is transported in the innermost regions. Some clues are available from multiwavelength monitoring campaigns although better sampling over longer periods is clearly called for. Recent work on the host galaxies of BL Lac objects supports their unification with low-power, aligned FRI radio galaxies. Nature makes jets with a large range of kinetic powers, but the relative number densities of low-luminosity ("blue" BL Lacs) or high-luminosity ("red" BL Lacs and FSRQ) blazars --- is highly uncertain. Since according to unified schemes blazars are representative of all radio-loud AGN, their jet properties have broad implications. Future EUV/X-ray observations will illuminate the circumnuclear structure, especially the hot, highly ionized, high velocity gas on sub-parsec scales, which could play a role in jet dynamics and could possibly affect the formation of FRI vs. FRII type jets. The study of blazars may also help us eventually understand the difference between radio-quiet and radio-loud AGN. [slightly abridged] 
We find that AGB stars separate in the 25-12 vs. 12-K color-color diagram according to their chemistry (O, S vs. C) and variability type (Miras vs. SRb/Lb). While discrimination according to the chemical composition is not surprising, the separation of Miras from SRb/Lb variables is unexpected.   We show that ``standard'' steady-state radiatively driven models provide excellent fits to the color distribution of Miras of all chemical types. However, these models are incapable of explaining the dust emission from O-rich SRb/Lb stars. The models can be altered to fit the data by postulating different optical properties for silicate grains, or by assuming that the dust temperature at the inner envelope radius is significantly lower (300-400 K) than typical condensation temperatures (800-1000 K), a possibility which is also supported by the detailed characteristics of LRS data.   The absence of hot dust for SRb/Lb stars can be interpreted as a recent (order of 100 yr) decrease in the mass-loss rate. The distribution of O-rich SRb/Lb stars in the 25-12 vs. K-12 color-color diagram shows that the mass-loss rate probably resumes again, on similar time scales. It cannot be ruled out that the mass-loss rate is changing periodically on such time scales, implying that the stars might oscillate between the Mira and SRb/Lb phases during their AGB evolution as proposed by Kerschbaum et al. (1996). Such a possibility appears to be supported by numerous recent observations. 
We discuss some open problems concerning the origin and the emission mechanism of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) in light of recent developments. If GRBs originate at extragalactic distances, we are facing four crises: (1) an energy crisis, models have to account for more than 10^{53} ergs of energy emitted in the gamma-ray energy band; (2) a spectral crisis, emission models have to account for the surprising `smoothness' of GRB broad-band spectra, with no indication of the predicted spectral `distorsions' caused by inverse Compton scattering in large radiation energy density media, and no evidence for beaming; (3) an afterglow crisis, relativistic shock models have to explain the complexity of the afterglow behavior, the longevity of optical transients detectable up to six months after the burst, the erratic behavior of the radio emission, and the lack of evidence for substantial beaming as indicated by recent searches for GRB afterglows in the X-ray band; (4) a population crisis, from data clearly indicating that ONLY hard and long GRBs show a strong deviation from an Euclidean brightness distribution, just the opposite of what expected from extragalactic models without substantial cosmological evolution. 
We present the X-ray luminosity function (XLF) for clusters of galaxies derived from the RASS1 Bright Sample. The sample, selected from the ROSAT All-Sky Survey in a region of 2.5 sr within the southern Galactic cap, contains 130 clusters with flux limits in the range ~ 3-4 x 10^-12 ergs/cm^2/s in the 0.5-2.0 keV band. A maximum-likelihood fit with a Schechter function of the XLF over the entire range of luminosities (0.045 - 28. x 10^44 ergs/s), gives alpha = 1.52 +/- 0.11, L_* = 3.80 +0.70 -0.55 x 10^44 ergs/s, and A = 5.07 +/- 0.45 x 10^-7 Mpc^-3 (10^44 ergs/s)^(\alpha-1). We investigate possible evolutionary effects within the sample, out to our redshift limit (z ~ 0.3), finding no evidence for evolution. Our results are in good agreement with other local estimates of the XLF, implying that this statistic for the local universe is now well determined. Comparison with XLFs for distant clusters (0.3 < z < 0.6), shows that no evolution is present for L_X < 10^{44} ergs/s. However, we detect differences at the 3 sigma level, between our local XLF and the distant one estimated by Henry et al. for the EMSS sample. This difference is still present when considering the EMSS sample revised by Nichol et al. 
The submillimeter universe has now been explored with the Submillimeter Common User Bolometer Array (SCUBA) camera on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope, and a claim has been made to the presence of a new population of optically unidentified starforming galaxies at high redshifts (z \gtrsim 3). Such a population dramatically alters current views on the star formation history of the universe as well as galaxy formation and evolution. Recently, new radio identifications of the Hubble Deep Field submm sources have led to the suggestion that some of these sources are at low redshifts, however, submm source redshift distribution is still not well determined. Here, we present an upper limit to the average redshift <z> by comparing the expected number of gravitationally lensed submm sources due to foreground cluster potentials to current observed statistics of such lensed sources. The upper limit depends on the cosmological parameters, and at the 68% confidence level, <z> < 3.1, 4.8, 5.2, or 8.0 for (Omega,Lambda) values of (0.3,0.7), (0.5,0.5), (0.3,0.0) or (1.0,0.0) respectively. These upper limits are consistent with redshift distribution for 850 micron sources implied by starformation history models based on measured background radiation at far-infrared and submm wavelengths. 
We have studied the spectral evolution of stellar populations in function of their heavy element content and star formation, using Geneva and Padova stellar track sets, both covering a number of metallicities, and Kurucz grid of stellar atmospheres. The general trend is the progressive growth of absorption and decline of flux towards shorter, UV-wavelengths, with increasing metallicity, and increase of infrared flux. Our models help to quantify given theoretically quite obvious effect. Presented results of integration of flux in different regions indicate, that with a change of metallicity from Z=0.001 to Z=0.04 total amount of radiation energy emitted in the shortest wavelength region by a stellar population during its lifetime diminishes typically by a factor ~10, with the corresponding typical increase in the infrared about 1.5-2 times. These numbers are quite independent on the actual IMF slope values under the assumption of identical slopes. 
Many cosmological models of GRBs envision the energy source to be a cataclysmic stellar event leading to a relativistically expanding fireball. Particles are thought to be accelerated at shocks and produce nonthermal radiation. The highly variable temporal structure observed in most GRBs has significantly constrained models. By using different methods of statistical analysis in the time domain we show that the width of the pulses in GRBs time histories remain remarkably constant throughout the classic GRB phase. Peaks at the end of a burst have the same average duration to within a few percent as the peaks at the start of the burst. For emission sites that lie on a relativistically expanding shell, peaks should grow in duration because of deceleration. We find no deceleration over at least 2/3 of the burst duration. For emission sites that occupy a spread of angles on a shell, the curvature should cause the later peaks to grow in duration. Since we see no such growth, we can limit the total angular size of the shell to be substantially smaller than \Gamma^{-1} where \Gamma is the bulk Lorentz factor. This lack of temporal evolution of the pulse width should be explained by any fireball shock scenario. 
A quantitative analysis of time series of ultraviolet spectra from a sample of 10 bright O-type stars (cf. Kaper et al. 1996, Paper I) is presented. The migrating discrete absorption components (DACs), responsible for the observed variability in the UV resonance doublets, are modeled. It turns out that the column density of a DAC first increases and subsequently decreases with time when the component is approaching its asymptotic velocity. In some cases this velocity systematically differs from event to event. The recurrence timescale of DACs is derived for most targets, and consistent results are obtained for different spectral lines. The DAC recurrence timescale is interpreted as an integer fraction of the stellar rotation period. In some datasets the variability in the blue edge of the P Cygni lines exhibits a longer period than the DAC variability. This might be related to the systematic difference in asymptotic velocity of successive DACs. The phase diagram for the O giant xi Persei shows clear evidence for so-called ``phase bowing'', which is an observational indication for the presence of curved wind structures like corotating interaction regions. No other O stars in our sample convincingly show phase bowing, but this could be simply due to the absence of periodic signal and hence coherent phase behaviour at low wind velocities. 
Linearly polarized, non-masing, rotational lines have been detected for the first time in the interstellar medium. This effect occurs in molecular clouds with a magnetic field, and traces the field direction, offering an alternative technique to dust emission polarimetry. The line polarization mechanism is similar to that in masers, but with lower degrees of polarization (~1%). We have detected the effect towards the Galactic Centre and its surrounding `2 pc ring', and in the molecular clouds S140 and DR21 (tentatively), in the lines CO J=2-1 and J=3-2, and 13CO J=2-1. The deduced magnetic field directions agree well with previous dust polarimetry results, confirming that the line polarization is a real effect. This new technique will be useful in sources that are too faint for dust polarimetry, and can also be used to investigate 3-dimensional morphology of magnetic fields, where the velocity structure of the clouds is known. 
The ultraviolet spectrum (1145--1720A) of the distant quasar Q 0302--003 (z=3.286) was observed at 1.8A resolution with the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph aboard the Hubble Space Telescope. A total integration time of 23,280 s was obtained. The spectrum clearly delineates the Gunn-Peterson HeII absorption trough, produced by HeII Lya, along the line of sight over the redshift range z=2.78-3.28. Its interpretation was facilitated by modeling based on Keck HIRES spectra of the HI Lya forest (provided by A. Songaila and by M. Rauch and W. Sargent). We find that near the quasar HeII Lya absorption is produced by discrete clouds, with no significant diffuse gas; this is attributed to a HeII "proximity effect" in which the quasar fully ionizes He in the diffuse intergalactic medium, but not the He in denser clouds. By two different methods we calculate that the average HeII Lya opacity at z~3.15 is tau >= 4.8. In the Dobrzycki-Bechtold void in the HI Lya forest near z=3.18, the average HeII opacity tau=4.47^{+0.48}_{-0.33}. Such large opacities require the presence of a diffuse gas component as well as a soft UV background spectrum, whose softness parameter, defined as the ratio of the photo-ionization rate in HI over the one in HeII, S=Gamma^J_HI/Gamma^J_HeII~=800, indicating a significant stellar contribution. At z=3.05, there is a distinct region of high HeII Lya transmission which most likely arises in a region where helium is doubly ionized by a discrete local source, quite possibly an AGN. At redshifts z<2.87, the HeII Lya opacity detected by STIS, tau=1.88, is significantly lower than at z>3. Such a reduction in opacity is consistent with Songaila's (1998) report that the hardness of the UV background spectrum increases rapidly from z=3 to z=2.9. 
Computer simulations of radio energy transfer in the ionospheric layer with random small-scale irregularities for the case of a point ground-based source and total reflection have been carried out using specially designed algorithm based on Monte Carlo method ideas. The model demonstrates redistribution of the reflected radiation power on the Earth's surface caused by multiple scattering process. The obtained data can serve as illustration of the effect of anomalous attenuation of the signal power in the sounder vicinity. This result is in agreement with more rigorous theory of the anomalous attenuation effect based on the solving of the radiative transfer equation. 
We present the pseudo-particle multipole method (P2M2), a new method to handle multipole expansion in fast multipole method and treecode. This method uses a small number of pseudo-particles to express multipole expansion. With this method, the implementation of FMM and treecode with high-order multipole terms is greatly simplified. We applied P2M2 to treecode and combined it with special-purpose computer GRAPE. Extensive tests on the accuracy and calculation cost demonstrate that the new method is quite attractive. 
Spectroscopic and photometric behaviour of the class of recurrent novae with giant secondaries (T Coronae Borealis, RS Ophiuchi, V3890 Sagittarii and V745 Scorpii) at quiescence are presented in this study. The hot component in these systems is variable, with the variability manifesting as variability in the ultraviolet luminosity, the ultraviolet and optical emission line fluxes and in the UBV/visual magnitudes. The variations are uncorrelated with the binary orbital motion. The observed ultraviolet+optical spectral characteristics of the hot component in these systems can be explained by a white dwarf+accretion disc embedded in an envelope of wind from the M giant secondary. We suggest the observed variations are a result of (a) fluctuations in the mass accretion rate; (b) changes in the column density of the absorbing, optically thick, wind envelope. 
The particle acceleration process at a shock wave, in the presence of the second-order Fermi acceleration in the turbulent medium near the shock, is discussed as an alternative explanation for the observed flat synchrotron spectra of supernova remnants (SNRs) in molecular clouds. We argue that medium Alfv\'en Mach number shocks considered by Chevalier (1999, ApJ, in press) for such SNRs can naturally lead to the observed spectral indices. 
The number of damped Ly-alpha absorbers (DLAs) currently known is about 100, but our knowledge of their sizes and morphologies is still very sparse as very few have been detected in emission. Here we present narrow-band and broad-band observations of a DLA in the field of the quasar pair Q0151+048A (qA) and Q0151+048B (qB). These two quasars have very similar redshifts z_em = 1.922, 1.937, respectively, and an angular separation of 3.27 arcsec. The spectrum of qA contains a DLA at z_abs = 1.9342 (close to the emission redshift) which shows an emission line in the trough, detected at 4 sigma. Our narrow-band image confirms this detection and we find Ly-alpha emission from an extended area covering 6x3 arcsec^2, corresponding to 25x12h^-2 kpc^2 (q0=0.5, H0 = 100h km s^-1). The total Ly-alpha luminosity from the DLA is 1.2 x 10^43 h^-2 erg s^-1, which is a factor of several higher than the Ly-alpha luminosity found from other DLAs. The narrow-band image also indicates that qB is not covered by the DLA. This fact, together with the large equivalent width of the emission line from the Ly-alpha cloud, the large luminosity, and the 300 km s^-1 blueshift relative to the DLA, can plausibly be explained if qB is the sourceof a Lyman-limit system. We also consider the relation between DLAs and Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs). If DLAs are gaseous disks surrounding LBGs, and if the apparent brightnesses and impact parameters of the few identified DLAs are representative of the brighter members of the population, then the luminosity distribution of DLAs is nearly flat, and we would expect that some 70% of the galaxy counterparts to DLAs at z=3 are fainter than m_R=28. 
We present time-resolved spectra of the double-degenerate binary star, GP Com. The spectra confirm the presence and period (46.5 min) of the `S'-wave feature found by Nather, Robinson and Stover. GP Com is erratically variable at X-ray and UV wavelengths. We have found the equivalent variability in our data, which, as also seen in UV data, is mostly confined to the emission lines. The HeII 4686 changes by the largest amount, consistent with X-ray driven photo-ionisation. The flaring part of the line profiles is broader than the average, as expected if they are dominated by the inner disc. The HeII 4686 profile is especially remarkable in that its blue-shifted peak is 1400 km/s from line centre compared to 700 km/s for the HeI lines (the red-shifted peak is blended with HeI 4713). We deduce that HeII 4686 emission is confined to the inner 1/4 of the disc. We suggest that the activity of the inner disc indicates that accretion is significant (and unstable) there, in contrast to quiescent dwarf novae, in support of models in which GP Com is in a (quasi-)steady-state of low mass transfer rate. GP Com shows triple-peaked lines profiles which consist of the usual double-peaked profiles from a disc plus a narrow component at line centre. We find evidence for both radial velocity and flux variability in this component, inconsistent with a nebula origin. The radial velocity amplitude and its phase relative to the `S'-wave are consistent with an origin on the accreting white dwarf, if the mass ratio, q = M2/M1, is of order 0.02, as expected on evolutionary grounds. However this explanation is still not satisfactory as the systemic velocity of the narrow component shows significant variation from line to line, and we have no explanation for this. 
Following the recent classification of the X-ray detected object V410 x-ray 3 with a young brown dwarf candidate (Briceno et al. 1998) and the identification of an X-ray source in Chamaeleon as young bona-fide brown dwarf (Neuhaeuser & Comeron 1998), we investigate all ROSAT All-Sky Survey and archived ROSAT PSPC and HRI pointed observations with bona-fide or candidate brown dwarfs in the field of view with exposure times ranging from 0.13 to 221 ks, including dedicated 64 ks and 42 ks deep ROSAT HRI pointed observations on the low-mass star BRI0021-0214 and the brown dwarf Calar 3, respectively. Out of 26 bona-fide brown dwarfs, one is newly detected in X-rays, namely rho Oph GY 202. Also, four out of 57 brown dwarf candidates studied here are detected in X-rays, namely the young Taurus brown dwarf candidates MHO-4, MHO-5, V410 Anon 13, and V410 x-ray 3. The M9.5-type star BRI0021-0214 is not detected. In the appendix, we also present catalogued, but as yet unnoticed B- and R-band data for some of the objects studied here. 
The statistical test described by Wielen et al.(1994) is used to derive new zero-points of ground-based Cepheid period-luminosity (PL) and period-luminosity-colour (PLC) relations. Eleven relations are compared with the Hipparcos data. Our results argue for a typical increase of the adopted distance scale by about 8% +- 8%. Our zero-point for the PL relation of Caldwell & Laney (1991) is in agreement with that of Feast & Catchpole (1997). 
In the last years, progress has been very rapid in the domain of molecules at high redshift, and we know in better detail now the molecular and dust content in several systems beyond z=1 and up to z = 5.   The first discovery in 1992 by Brown and van den Bout of CO lines at z=2.28 in a gravitationally lensed starburst galaxy, strongly stimulated searches of other systems, but these were harder than foreseen, and less than 10 other systems have been discovered in CO emission. Redshifts range between 2 and 5, the largest being BR1202-0725 at z=4.69. Most of these systems, if not all, are gravitationally amplified objects. Some have been discovered first through their dust emission, relatively easy to detect because of the negative K-correction effect. The detection of all these systems could give an answer about the debated question of the star-formation rate as a function of redshift. The maximum of star-formation rate, found around z=2 from optical studies, could shift to higher z if the most remote objects are hidden by dust.   Absorption in front of quasars can also probe cold gas at high redshift, taking advantage of very high spatial (milli arcsec) and spectral (30m/s) resolutions. From the diffuse components, one can measure the cosmic black body temperature as a function of redshift. All these preliminary studies will be carried out at large scales with future millimeter instruments, and some perspectives are given. 
By using bidimensional spectral data obtained at the 6m telescope for the Virgo spirals NGC 4216 and NGC 4501, we have found chemically distinct metal-rich nuclei in these galaxies. Under the assumption of equal ages for the nuclear and bulge stellar populations, the metallicity difference between the nuclei and their environments in the galaxies is estimated as a factor of 2. But we have also found an age difference between the nucleus and the bulge in NGC 4216: age-metallicity disentangling on the diagrams (H-beta, Mgb), (H-beta, [MgFe]), and (H-beta, $<Fe>$) results in an age estimate for the nucleus of 8 - 12 billion years, the bulge being older by a factor of 1.5 - 2; and the self-consistent metallicity difference estimate is then a factor of 3. The solar magnesium-to-iron ratios in the galactic nuclei show evidence for a long duration of the secondary nuclear star formation bursts which produced the chemically distinct stellar subsystems. Detailed morphological and kinematical analyses made for the stellar and gaseous structures in the centers of NGC 4216 and 4501 have revealed the presence of circumnuclear stellar-gaseous disks with radius of some hundreds parsecs which demonstrate fast axisymmetric rotation and lie exactly in the planes of the main galactic disks. 
We have obtained high resolution optical spectroscopy of the accretion disc corona source 2S0921--630 (=V395 Car) that constrains the spectral type of the companion star to be most probably K0III. At 6500A the secondary star is found to contribute ~25% to the observed flux. The absorption line spectrum of the K0III companion star is broadened (compared to template stars) by a projected rotational velocity of 65+/-9 km/s (1 sigma). 
Mid-infrared photometry of the hosts of Narrow-Line X-ray Galaxies at 6 microns and 12 microns has been attempted with ISOCAM. No conclusive detections have been made. This implies that these are quiescent objects with little or no active star-formation. Neither X-ray binaries nor starburst-driven superwinds are consistent explanations for the X-ray emission in these objects. We conclude that these NLXGs are predominantly AGN-powered. 
We present our analysis of the high-energy radiation from black hole (BH) transients, using archival data obtained primarily with RXTE observatory, and a comprehensive test of the bulk motion Comptonization (BMC) model for the high-soft state continuum. The emergent spectra of over 30 separate measurements of GRO J1655-40, GRS 1915+105, GRS 1739-278, 4U 1630-47 XTE J1755-32, and EXO~1846-031 X-ray sources are successfully fitted by the BMC model, which has been derived from basic physical principles in previous work. This in turn provides direct physical insight into the innermost observable regions where matter impinging upon the event horizon can effectively be directly viewed. The BMC model is characterized by three parameters: the disk color temperature, a geometric factor related to the illumination of the black hole (BH) site by the disk and a spectral index related to the efficiency of the bulk motion upscattering. For the case of GRO J1655-40, where there are distance and mass determinations, a self consistency check of the BMC model has been made. Using model parameters we present new, independent constraints on the black hole mass, mass accretion rate and the distance for the aforementioned sources. Notable is the relationship between the color temperature and flux, which for GRO J1655-40 is entirely distinct from a simple T^4 dependence, and consistent with the disk model we have invoked - standard Shakura-Sunyaev's disk. This allows us to impose an important estimation of the hardness parameter, the ratio of the color temperature to the effective temperature - we find T_h~2.6, higher than previous estimates used in the literature. 
The star formation histories of Local Group (LG) dwarf galaxies and more distant potential LG members are reviewed. Problems in defining the spatial extent of the LG and membership are briefly discussed. The morphological types found in the LG are presented, and it is suggested that we see continuous evolution from low-mass dwarf irregulars (dIrrs) to dwarf spheroidal galaxies (dSph) in the LG.   Star formation histories for LG dwarfs and nearby LG candidates are compiled using population boxes. No two dwarfs, irrespective of morphological type, show the same evolutionary history, and all vary widely in ages of their subpopulations and in their enrichment history. The lack of gas in dSphs and dEs may be explained by a new photoionization scenario. Old populations, often spatially very extended, may be a common property of dwarf galaxies, though their fractions can be very small. Almost all types of dwarf galaxies studied in detail so far show spatial variations in ages and abundances such as radial age/metallicity gradients. The observed star formation histories impose constraints on merger and accretion scenarios.   Properties of the Milky Way dSphs are compared to the M31 dSphs and discussed in the framework of the ram pressure/tidal stripping scenario. It is demonstrated that the newly discovered LG dwarfs follow the same relationship for central surface brightness, mean metallicity, and absolute magnitude as the other LG dwarfs. (Shortened) 
A photon's observed wavelength tells an astronomical detector about the amount of position information obtained by observing that photon. This amount of position information may depend on time in a way which, to first order over distances small compared to the size of the universe, might account for the cosmological redshift. 
The problem of predicting the upper cut-off of the cosmic ray spectrum is re-examined. Some aspects of extremely high energy interactions and their implications for the interpretation of giant air showers are also discussed. 
The determination of velocities of stars from precise Doppler measurements is described here using relativistic theory of astronomical reference frames so as to determine the Keplerian and post-Keplerian parameters of binary systems. We apply successive Lorentz transformations and the relativistic equation of light propagation to establish the exact treatment of Doppler effect in binary systems both in special and general relativity theories. As a result, the Doppler shift is a sum of (1) linear in $c^{-1}$ terms, which include the ordinary Doppler effect and its variation due to the secular radial acceleration of the binary with respect to observer; (2) terms proportional to $c^{-2}$, which include the contributions from the quadratic Doppler effect caused by the relative motion of binary star with respect to the Solar system, motion of the particle emitting light and diurnal rotational motion of observer, orbital motion of the star around the binary's barycenter, and orbital motion of the Earth; and (3) terms proportional to $c^{-2}$, which include the contributions from redshifts due to gravitational fields of the star, star's companion, Galaxy, Solar system, and the Earth. After parameterization of the binary's orbit we find that the presence of periodically changing terms in the Doppler schift enables us disentangling different terms and measuring, along with the well known Keplerian parameters of the binary, four additional post-Keplerian parameters, including the inclination angle of the binary's orbit, $i$. We briefly discuss feasibility of practical implementation of these theoretical results, which crucially depends on further progress in the technique of precision Doppler measurements. 
Neutrino-pair bremsstrahlung by relativistic degenerate electrons in a neutron-star crust at densities (10^9 - 1.5x10^{14}) g/cm^3 is analyzed. The processes taken into account are neutrino emission due to Coulomb scattering of electrons by atomic nuclei in a Coulomb liquid, and electron-phonon scattering and Bragg diffraction (the static-lattice contribution) in a Coulomb crystal. The static-lattice contribution is calculated including the electron band-structure effects for cubic Coulomb crystals of different types and also for the liquid crystal phases composed of rod- and plate-like nuclei in the neutron-star mantle (at 10^{14} - 1.5x10^{14} g/cm^3). The phonon contribution is evaluated with proper treatment of the multi-phonon processes which removes a jump in the neutrino bremsstrahlung emissivity at the melting point obtained in previous works. Below 10^{13} g/cm^3, the results are rather insensitive to the nuclear form factor, but results for the solid state near the melting point are affected significantly by the Debye-Waller factor and multi-phonon processes. At higher densities, the nuclear form factor becomes more significant. A comparison of the various neutrino generation mechanisms in neutron star crusts shows that electron bremsstrahlung is among the most important ones. 
A new polarimeter called AnyPol has been used at Limber Observatory for four years to annually monitor the broadband linear polarization of a sample of bright northern Be stars. This is the fourth report on a program started in 1985 at McDonald Observatory and the first one to come entirely from the new installation. Although no variability was detected at the 3-sigma level during the current reporting period, analysis of the full 13-year data set is beginning to reveal hints of long-term variability that may provide clues for understanding the Be phenomenon. 
Selected topics dealing with X-ray/soft gamma-ray emission from accreting black-hole sources are reviewed. The shape of soft gamma-ray spectra of Seyferts observed by OSSE can be well modelled by thermal Comptonization. A very strong correlation between the X-ray slope and the strength of Compton reflection in these sources can then be explained by thermal Comptonization in vicinity of the reflecting cold media. Similar correlation is seen for the hard state of black-hole binaries, but the strength of Compton reflection at a given X-ray slope is larger than in Seyferts. This appears to be due to seed photons (for Comptonization) emitted by the cold media having larger energies in stellar-mass systems than in Seyferts. Broad-line radio galaxies have hard X-ray spectra with weak reflection, which reflection is similar to that in Seyferts with hard X-ray spectra. Two main models for the source geometry, a hot inner disk surrounded by a cold outer disk, and a dynamic corona above a cold disk, appear about equally viable based on the presently available data. 
Due to the clumpy nature of the self gravitating gas composing the interstellar medium, it is not clear whether galactic gas dynamics can be discussed in terms of standard hydrodynamics. Nevertheless, it is clear that certain generic properties related to orbital structure in a given potential and the effect of dissipation can be used to qualitatively understand gas motion in galaxies. The effect of dissipation is examined in triaxial galaxy potentials with and without rotating time dependent components. In the former case, dissipative trajectories settle around closed loop orbits when these exist. When they do not, e.g., inside a constant density core, then the only attractor is the centre and this leads to mass inflow. This provides a self regulating mechanism for accession of material towards the centre --- since the formation of a central masses destroys the central density core and eventually stops the accession. In the case when a rotating bar is present, there are usually several types of attractors, including those on which long lived chaotic motion can occur (strange attractors). Motion on these is erratic with large radial and vertical oscillations. 
We present results of Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer (XTE) observations of the atoll source 4U 1702-429 in the middle of its luminosity range. Kilohertz-range quasiperiodic oscillations (QPOs) were observed first as a narrow (FWHM ~7 Hz) peak near 900 Hz, and later as a pair consisting of a narrow peak in the range 625--825 Hz and a faint broad (FWHM 91 Hz) peak. When the two peaks appeared simultaneously the separation was 333 +/- 5 Hz. Six type I thermonuclear bursts were detected, of which five exhibited almost coherent oscillations near 330 Hz, which makes 4U 1702-429 only the second source to show burst oscillations very close to the kilohertz QPO separation frequency. The energy spectrum and color-color diagram indicate that the source executed variations in the range between the ``island'' and ``lower banana'' atoll states. In addition to the kilohertz variability, oscillations at ~10, ~35, and 80 Hz were also detected at various times, superimposed on a red noise continuum. The centroid of the \~35 Hz QPO tracks the frequency of the kilohertz oscillation when they were both present. A Lense-Thirring gravitomagnetic precession interpretation appears more plausible in this case, compared to other atoll sources with low frequency QPOs. 
We investigate the evolution of non-linear density perturbations by taking into account the effects of deviations from spherical symmetry of a system. Starting from the standard spherical top hat model in which these effects are ignored, we introduce a physically motivated closure condition which specifies the dependence of the additional terms on the density contrast, $\delta$. The modified equation can be used to model the behaviour of an overdense region over a sufficiently large range of $\delta$. The key new idea is a Taylor series expansion in ($1/\delta$) to model the non-linear epoch. We show that the modified equations quite generically lead to the formation of stable structures in which the gravitational collapse is halted at around the virial radius. The analysis also allows us to connect up the behaviour of individual overdense regions with the non-linear scaling relations satisfied by the two point correlation function. 
Analytical studies and numerical simulations of time dependent axially symmetric flows onto black holes have shown that it is possible to produce stationary shock waves with a stable position both for ideal inviscid and for moderately viscous accretion disks.   We perform several two dimensional numerical simulations of accretion flows in the equatorial plane to study shock stability against non-axisymmetric azimuthal perturbations. We find a peculiar new result. A very small perturbation seems to produce an instability as it crosses the shock, but after some small oscillations, the shock wave suddenly transforms into an asymmetric closed pattern, and it stabilizes with a finite radial extent, despite the inflow and outflow boundary conditions are perfectly symmetric. The main characteristics of the final flow are: 1) The deformed shock rotates steadily without any damping. It is a permanent feature and the thermal energy content and the emitted energy vary periodically with time. 2) This behavior is also stable against further perturbations. 3) The average shock is still very strong and well defined, and its average radial distance is somewhat larger than that of the original axially symmetric circular shock. 4) Shocks obtained with larger angular momentum exhibit more frequencies and beating phenomena. 5) The oscillations occur in a wide range of parameters, so this new effect may have relevant observational consequences, like (quasi) periodic oscillations, for the accretion of matter onto black holes. Typical time scales for the periods are 0.01 and 1000 seconds for black holes with 10 and 1 million solar mass, respectively. 
A major goal of modern astrophysics is to understand the processes by which the universe evolved from its initial simplicity, as seen in measurements of the Cosmic Microwave Background, to the universe we see today, with complexity on all scales. While the diffuse background measurements of COBE reveal the importance of the far infrared and submillimeter in early galaxy and star formation, the understanding of the development of complex structure requires high resolution imaging and spectroscopy.   We present a concept for a space mission called SPECS, the Submillimeter Probe of the Evolution of Cosmic Structure, which provides these capabilities. SPECS is a cold, spatial and spectral Michelson interferometer with adjustable baselines ranging up to 1 km. It has Hubble sensitivity and angular resolution in the far IR and submillimeter, spectral resolution up to 10,000, and a 14' field of view. SPECS will be able to image thermal dust continuum and infrared cooling and diagnostic line emission over a wide range of redshifts, providing extinction-free astrophysical probes of young galaxies and early cosmic structures, and measures of the luminosity and heavy element formation history of the universe. SPECS would also have the potential to improve vastly our knowledge of protostars, protoplanetary systems, Active Galactic Nuclei and other objects in the local universe.   We recommend that a concerted effort be made during the next decade to develop and test certain critical technologies (photon-counting far IR detectors, formation flying spacecraft, cold, lightweight mirrors, and active coolers), so that SPECS can be deployed in about 2015. 
We present limits to the log N - log S curve for isolated neutron stars, both cooling and accreting neutron stars, which are not active as radio pulsars, as observed with the ROSAT All-Sky Survey and compare it with theoretical expectations. So far, only one isolated neutron star is identified optically among ROSAT sources, namely RXJ185635-3754 (Walter & Matthews 1997). Three more promising candidates have been suggested. In addition, several upper limit estimates are available on the space density of such neutron stars from different optical follow-up studies. We show that the log N - log S curve according to the current observations, including the identified neutron star, the three additional candidates, and the upper limits, lies between the theoretical expectations for middle-aged cooling neutron stars and old accreting neutron stars. At least one of the neutron star candidates found so far with ROSAT may be cooling instead of accreting. We suggest that the fact that more accreting isolated old neutron stars were expected (e.g., Madau & Blaes 1994) than observed is mostly due to the velocity distribution used in those calculations. More recent radio observations indicate that there are fewer slow neutron stars, ie., fewer accreting X-ray bright old neutron stars. At the X-ray bright end of the log N - log S curve, however, the ROSAT observations agree well with the theoretical expectations. 
It is well known that estimating the pairwise velocity of galaxies, v_{12}, from the redshift space galaxy correlation function is difficult because this method is highly sensitive to the assumed model of the pairwise velocity dispersion. Here we propose an alternative method to estimate v_{12} directly from peculiar velocity samples, which contain redshift-independent distances as well as galaxy redshifts. In contrast to other dynamical measures which determine beta = sigma_8 x Omega^{0.6}, our method can provide an estimate of (sigma_8)^2 x Omega^{0.6} for a range of sigma_8 (here Omega is the cosmological mass density parameter while sigma_8 is the standard normalization parameter for the spectrum of matter density fluctuations). We demonstrate how to measure this quantity from realistic catalogues. 
Soft gamma-ray repeaters (SGR) are a class of high energy transients whose brief emissions are thought to arise from young and highly magnetized neutron stars. The exact cause for these outbursts and the nature of the energy loss remain unknown. Here we report the discovery of a fading radio source within the localization of the relatively under-studied SGR 1900+14. We argue that this radio source is a short-lived nebula powered by the particles ejected during the intense high energy activity in late August 1998, which included the spectacular gamma-ray burst of August 27. The radio observations allow us to constrain the energy released in the form of particles ejected during the burst, un-complicated by beaming effects. Furthermore, thanks to the astrometric precision of radio observations, we have finally localized this repeater to sub-arcsecond accuracy. 
The nonthermal particle content of galaxy clusters should in part have a cosmological component generated during the early starburst phase of the member galaxies. This is reviewed in the framework of a simple cluster formation model suggested previously. It implies a nonthermal energy fraction of about 10 percent for the Intracluster gas. We also propose a mechanism for the early generation of Intracluster magnetic fields in terms of Galactic Winds. It results in typical field strengths of about 0.1 microGauss. Such comparatively weak fields are consistent with an inverse Compton origin of the excess EUV and hard X-ray emission of the Coma cluster, given the radio synchrotron emission. The required relativistic electrons must have been accelerated rather recently, less than a few billion years ago, presumably in cluster accretion shocks. This is in contrast to the hadronic nonthermal component which accumulates on cosmological time scales, and whose pion-decay TeV gamma-ray emission is expected to be larger, or of the same order as the inverse Compton TeV emission. This gamma-radiation characterizes the energetic history of cluster formation and should be observable with future arrays of imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes. 
In order to trace observationally the conditions in the interstellar medium (ISM) that lead to starbursts, we have used the newly expanded Berkeley-Illinois-Maryland Association (BIMA) millimeter-wave array to map the molecular ISM in a sample of LIGs chosen to represent different phases of the interacting/merging process. CO images of 6 galaxy mergers at the early/intermediate stage are shown here and preliminary results are summarized. 
We present here dust models for the Small Magellanic Cloud bar calculated for the first time with the regularization approach. A simple mixture of the core-mantle and/or composite grains (mostly made from silicates and organic refractory) together with silicon nanoparticles is consistent with the following: 1) the observed extinction toward AzV 398 (a typical SMC bar sightline), 2) the elemental abundances, and 3) the strength of the interstellar radiation field. We predict the expected albedo and asymmetry parameter of the models, which can be tested in future observations. The proposed dust models can also be tested by looking for the expected extended red emission. 
Genesis of flux ropes observed by Pioneer-Venus Orbiter in the photoequilibrium region at Venus is analysed. Stability analysis of the large-scale magnetic field pushed deep inside during period of high dynamic pressure of solar wind had shown that the top-side boundary of the magnetic belt located within the region of photoequilibrium is unstable. The finite conductivity of plasma tends to stabilise the instability so that the bottom-side part of the magnetic belt is regular. Non-numerous flux ropes which were observed above the predicted instability region are likely moving upward because of the magnetic buoyancy. 
We applay the genus statistics to simulated CMB polarization maps, constructed from the secondary-ionization cosmological models in experimental situations comparable to those of forthcoming space experiments. We find that both the cosmic baryon density and the spectral index of density perturbations are strongly anicorrelated to the reionization redshift. Using the Fisher matrix approach we show that the accuracy on the spectral index and optical depth to the last scattering are improved in the case of genus statistics when comparing with the accuracy obtained from the standard power spectrum statistics. 
Collective Shapiro Phase Shift on the period of the pulsars due to a dark object (a passing MACHO or a planet) along the line-of-sight of one or more pulsar is a formidable gravitational tool to discover dark matter.We already noted that the presence of a few negative PSRs period, possibly due to such a Shapiro delay, is roughly consistent with independent estimates of MACHOs observed by microlensing in our Galaxy. Here we update our study and suggest to verify and to calibrate the Shapiro phase delay to observe on ecliptic main known planetary and solar gravitational fields. Once the test is probed we propose to use, in a collective way, a subsample of PSRs on the ecliptic plane to monitor our solar system for discovering any heavy unknown object, either dark Macho or planets. The importance of such unknown possible planetary components and their eventual near encounter with Earth in the far past (or future) should be not neglected : the same life evolution (or extinction) might be marked by such a rare event. 
The axisymmetric component of the large-scale solar magnetic fields has a pronounced poleward branch at higher latitudes. In order to clarify the origin of this branch we construct an axisymmetric model of the passive transport of the mean poloidal magnetic field in the convective zone, including meridional circulation, anisotropic diffusivity, turbulent pumping and density pumping. For realistic values of the transport coefficients we find that diffusivity is prevalent, and the latitudinal distribution of the field at the surface simply reflects the conditions at the bottom of the convective zone. Pumping effects concentrate the field to the bottom of the convective zone; a significant part of this pumping occurs in a shallow subsurface layer, normally not resolved in dynamo models. The phase delay of the surface poloidal field relative to the bottom poloidal field is found to be small. These results support the double dynamo wave models, may be compatible with some form of a mixed transport scenario, and exclude the passive transport theory for the origin of the polar branch. 
We study the generation of gravitational radiation by sources moving in the de Sitter background. Exploiting the maximal symmetry and the conformal flatness of de Sitter space-time we prove that the derivation of this gravitational radiation can be done along the same lines as in Minkowski space-time. A gauge is chosen in which all the physical and unphysical modes of the graviton are those of a minimally coupled massless scalar field in de Sitter space-time and a massless field in Minkowski space-time. The graviton retarded Green's function and the Schwinger commutator function are computed in this gauge using Quantum Field Theory techniques. We obtain closed formulae for the spectral decomposition in frequencies of the linaearized gravitational field produced by the source, in terms of a suitable spectral decomposition of the source energy-momentum tensor. This spectral decomposition is dictated by the free (sourceless) gravitational wave modes in the de Sitter background 
The degree of linear polarization has recently been found to show wide random variations over the solar disk. These variations are presumably at least partly due to fluctuations in the flux density of turbulent photospheric magnetic fields and associated variations in the degree of Hanle depolarization. In order to understand the origin of such large scale fluctuations of the turbulent magnetic flux density we develop a phenomenological model to calculate the spatial Fourier spectrum of the fluctuations of turbulent magnetic fields in the solar photosphere and convective zone. It is found that if the model parameters are fitted to turbulence closure models and numerical experiments the characteristic scale of the fluctuations is by about an order of magnitude larger than the turbulence scale (the scale of the granulation), owing to the more effective quenching of small-scale fluctuations by turbulent diffusion. 
The self-gravitating thermal gas (non-relativistic particles of mass m at temperature T) is exactly equivalent to a field theory with a single scalar field phi(x) and exponential self-interaction. We build up perturbation theory around a space dependent stationary point phi_0(r) in a finite size domain delta \leq r \leq R ,(delta << R), which is relevant for astrophysical applica- tions (interstellar medium,galaxy distributions).We compute the correlations of the gravitational potential (phi) and of the density and find that they scale; the latter scales as 1/r^2. A rich structure emerges in the two-point correl- tors from the phi fluctuations around phi_0(r). The n-point correlators are explicitly computed to the one-loop level.The relevant effective coupling turns out to be lambda=4 pi G m^2 / (T R). The renormalization group equations (RGE) for the n-point correlator are derived and the RG flow for the effective coupling lambda(tau) [tau = ln(R/delta), explicitly obtained.A novel dependence on tau emerges here.lambda(tau) vanishes each time tau approaches discrete values tau=tau_n = 2 pi n/sqrt7-0, n=0,1,2, ...Such RG infrared stable behavior [lambda(tau) decreasing with increasing tau] is here connected with low density self-similar fractal structures fitting one into another.For scales smaller than the points tau_n, ultraviolet unstable behaviour appears which we connect to Jeans' unstable behaviour, growing density and fragmentation. Remarkably, we get a hierarchy of scales and Jeans lengths following the geometric progression R_n=R_0 e^{2 pi n /sqrt7} = R_0 [10.749087...]^n . A hierarchy of this type is expected for non-spherical geometries,with a rate different from e^{2 n/sqrt7}. 
We discuss the forces on grains exposed to anisotropic radiation fields, including the usual ``radiation pressure'' force and also recoil forces due to photoemitted electrons, photodesorbed hydrogen atoms, and hydrogen molecules which form on the grain surface. We show that these forces can lead to grain dynamics in photodissociation regions which result in enhanced dust-to-gas ratios. Since the gas heating is probably dominated by photoelectric emission from dust, this might explain the unusually high gas temperatures inferred from ISO observations of molecular hydrogen in photodissociation regions. 
We consider the depletion of elements from the interstellar gas onto a population of very small dust grains. Adopting a grain model in which of order 4% of the cosmic C abundance is in grains with radii <= 10 Angstroms, we find that the rate of accretion onto these grains is adequately fast to account for the observed large depletions of elements like Ti, without invoking unreasonably high rates of mass transfer between interstellar phases or low grain destruction rates. If these grains are composed of arene rings, then only a limited number of metal atoms can be locked up in them. The depletion would be quenched when this limit is reached, unless there is a mechanism for transferring the metals to larger grains and refreshing the very small grain population, for example by grain coagulation and shattering in the diffuse ISM. If Fe depletes onto the very small grains, then for reasonable coagulation rates there is at least one metal atom per five C atoms in the very small grain population. Furthermore, approximately 60% of the cosmic Fe is associated with the carbonaceous grain population. It is unclear whether this scenario is compatible with observations. However, if there is another population of very small grains, with a large capacity for holding Fe atoms, it might be the sink for the most heavily depleted elements. 
The LCO/Palomar 10,000 km/sec (LP10K) Tully-Fisher (TF) data set is used to test for bulk streaming motions on a ~150 Mpc scale. The sample consists of 172 cluster galaxies in the original target range of the survey, 9000-13,000 km/sec, plus an additional 72 galaxies with cz < 30,000 km/sec. A maximum-likelihood analysis that is insensitive to Malmquist and selection bias effects is used to constrain the bulk velocity parameters, and realistic Monte-Carlo simulations are carried out to correct residual biases and determine statistical errors. When the analysis is restricted to the original target range, the bias-corrected bulk flow is v_B=720 +/- 280 km/sec toward l=266, b=19. When all objects out to z=0.1 are included the result is virtually unchanged, v_B=700 +/- 250 km/sec toward l=272, b=10. The hypothesis that the Hubble flow has converged to the CMB frame at distances less than ~ 100 Mpc is ruled out at the 97% confidence level. The data are inconsistent with the flow vector found by Lauer & Postman. However, the LP10K bulk flow is consistent with that obtained from the SMAC survey of elliptical galaxies recently described by Hudson et al. If correct, the LP10K results indicate that the convergence depth for the Hubble flow is >~ 150 Mpc. 
We investigate the evolution of RR Tel after the outburst by fitting the emission spectra in two epochs. The first one (1978) is characterized by large fluctuations in the light curve and the second one (1993) by the slow fading trend. In the frame of a colliding wind model two shocks are present: the reverse shock propagates in the direction of the white dwarf and the other one expands towards or beyond the giant. The results of our modeling show that in 1993 the expanding shock has overcome the system and is propagating in the nearby ISM. The large fluctuations observed in the 1978 light curve result from line intensity rather than from continuum variation. These variations are explained by fragmentation of matter at the time of head-on collision of the winds from the two stars. A high velocity (500 km/s) wind component is revealed from the fit of the SED of the continuum in the X-ray range in 1978, but is quite unobservable in the line profiles. The geometrical thickness of the emitting clumps is the critical parameter which can explain the short time scale variabilities of the spectrum and the trend of slow line intensity decrease. 
The combination of ground-based astrometric compilation catalogues, such as the FK5 or the GC, with the results of the ESA Astrometric Satellite HIPPARCOS produces for many thousands of stars proper motions which are significantly more accurate than the proper motions derived from the HIPPARCOS observations alone. In the combination of the basic FK5 with the HIPPARCOS Catalogue (i.e., in the FK6), the gain in accuracy is about a factor of two for the proper motions of single stars. The use of the GC still improves the accuracy of the proper motions by a factor of about 1.2. We derive and describe in detail how to combine a ground-based compilation catalogue with HIPPARCOS. Our analytic approach is helpful for understanding the principles of the combination method. In real applications we use a numerical approach which avoids some (minor) approximations made in the analytic approach. We give a numerical example of our combination method and present an overall error budget for the combination of the ground-based data for the basic FK5 stars and for the GC stars with the HIPPARCOS observations. In the present paper we describe the 'single-star mode' of our combination method. This mode is appropriate for truly single stars or for stars which can be treated like single stars. The specific handling of binaries will be discussed in subsequent papers. 
This presentation reports on first evidence for a low-mass-density/positive-cosmological-constant universe that will expand forever, based on observations of a set of 40 high-redshift supernovae. The experimental strategy, data sets, and analysis techniques are described. More extensive analyses of these results with some additional methods and data are presented in the more recent LBNL report #41801 (Perlmutter et al., 1998; accepted for publication in Ap.J.), astro-ph/9812133 .   This Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory reprint is a reduction of a poster presentation from the Cosmology Display Session #85 on 9 January 1998 at the American Astronomical Society meeting in Washington D.C. It is also available on the World Wide Web at http://supernova.LBL.gov/ This work has also been referenced in the literature by the pre-meeting abstract citation: Perlmutter et al., B.A.A.S., volume 29, page 1351 (1997). 
Using DIRBE and FIRAS maps at high latitude ($|b|>10^{\circ}$) we derive the spatial distribution of the dust temperature associated with the diffuse cirrus and the dense molecular clouds. For a $\nu^2$ emissivity law, we find that the equilibrium dust temperature of the cirrus is about 17.5 K with only small variations over the high latitude sky. Comparison of the far Infrared DIRBE maps shows the presence of a colder emission component with a temperature around 15 K, assuming a $\nu^2$ emissivity law. The lowest values of the temperature found in the cold regions ($\sim 13 K$) are compatible with the results recently obtained for dense cores in star forming regions by the balloon-borne experiment SPM-PRONAOS (Ristorcelli et al., 1996, 1998, Serra et al., 1997). This cold component is in particular present in the direction of known molecular complexes with low star forming activity such as Taurus. The association between the cold component and molecular clouds is further demonstrated by the fact that all sky pixels with significant cold emission have an excess IR emission with respect to the high latitude IR/HI correlation. We have deduced a threshold value of the column density, $N_{HI} = 2.5 10^{20} H/cm^2$, below which cold dust is not detected within the FIRAS beam of $\sim 7\degr$. We have re-examined the problem of the existence of a very cold dust component ($T \sim 7 K$) by combining DIRBE maps of the cold emission with FIRAS spectra, corrected for the isotropic component found in Puget et al. (1996). The warm and cold component deduced from the analysis of DIRBE maps account for the Galactic FIRAS spectra with no need for a very cold component ($T\sim7$ K). 
We present observations of a series of 10 outbursts of pulsed hard X-ray flux from the transient 10.6 mHz accreting pulsar GS 1843-02, using the Burst and Transient Source Experiment on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory. These outbursts occurred regularly every 242 days, coincident with the ephemeris of the periodic transient GRO J1849-03 (Zhang et al. 1996), which has recently been identified with the SAS 3 source 2S 1845-024 (Soffitta et al. 1998). Our pulsed detection provides the first clear identification of GS 1843-02 with 2S 1845-024. We present a pulse timing analysis which shows that the 2S 1845-024 outbursts occur near the periastron passage of the neutron star's highly eccentric (e = 0.88+-0.01) 242.18+-0.01 day period binary orbit about a high mass (M > 7 solar masses) companion. The orbit and transient outburst pattern strongly suggest the pulsar is in a binary system with a Be star. Our observations show a long-term spin-up trend, with most of the spin-up occurring during the outbursts. From the measured spin-up rates and inferred luminosities we conclude that an accretion disk is present during the outbursts. 
We report mid-infrared observations of several luminous infrared galaxies (LIGs) carried out with the Infrared Space Observatory. Our sample was chosen to represent different phases of a merger sequence of galaxy-galaxy interaction with special emphasis on early/intermediate stages of merging. The mid-infrared emission of these LIGs shows extended structures for the early and intermediate mergers, indicating that most of the mid-infrared luminosities are not from a central active galactic nucleus (AGN). Both the infrared hardness (indicated by the IRAS 12, 25, and 60 $\micron$ flux density ratios) and the peak-to-total flux density ratios of these LIGs increase as projected separation of these interacting galaxies become smaller, consistent with increasing star formation activities that are concentrated to a smaller area as the merging process advances. These observations provide among the first observational constraint of largely theoretically based scenarios. 
Abell 754, a cluster undergoing merging, was observed in hard X-rays with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) in order to constrain its hottest temperature component and search for evidence of nonthermal emission. Simultaneous modeling of RXTE data and those taken with previous missions yields an average intracluster temperature of $\sim 9$ keV in the 1-50 keV energy band. A multi-temperature component model derived from numerical simulations of the evolution of a cluster undergoing a merger produces similar quality of fit, indicating that the emission measure from the very hot gas component is sufficiently small that it renders the two models indistinguishable. No significant nonthermal emission was detected. However, our observations set an upper limit of $7.1 \times 10^{-14} ergs/(cm^2 s keV)$ (90% confidence limit) to the nonthermal emission flux at 20 keV. Combining this result with the radio synchrotron emission flux we find a lower limit of 0.2 $\mu$G for the intracluster magnetic field. We discuss the implications of our results for the theories of magnetic field amplifications in cluster mergers. 
The discovery of X-ray, optical and radio afterglows of GRBs provides an important tool for understanding these sources. Most current models envisage GRB as arising in a cataclysmic stellar event leading to a relativistically expanding fireball, where particle acceleration at shocks lead to nonthermal radiation. The predictions of this scenario are in substantial agreement with the bulk of the observations. In addition, the data show a diversity of finer structure behavior, which is providing constraints for more detailed models. Current issues of interest are the implications of the beaming for the energetics, the afterglow time structure, dependence on progenitor system, and the role of the environment. 
We employ an efficient numerical approach to simulate a stationary distribution of test objects, which results from their gravitational scattering on the four giant planets, with accounting for effects of mean motion resonances. Using the observed distribution of the Kuiper belt objects, we reconstruct, in the space of orbital coordinates, the distribution function $n(a,e,i)$ for the population of minor bodies beyond Jupiter. We confirm that thousands of large yet cold comets and Centaurs might be located between the orbits of Jupiter and Neptune. Moreover, we find as an important result that they are concentrated into four circumsolar belts, with a highly non-uniform and well structured distribution of the objects. This huge yet unrevealed population, with only a few of its representatives presently known, is expected to have, like our simulations demonstrate, a rich resonant structure containing both density maxima and gaps. The resonant structure is formed due to gravitational perturbations, i.e. in a non-dissipative way. If plotted in the ($a,e,i$)-space of orbital coordinates, the belts contain gaps (including those between resonant groups), quite similar to the Kirkwood gaps in the main asteroid belt. An appreciable fraction of the test bodies reveals, for some time, an accumulation near (rather than in) the resonances, both interior and exterior, with the giant planets. An accompanying paper considers the population simulated in this work as the major source of dust in the outer Solar system. The simple but fast and efficient numerical approach employed in this work would allow the reader for applying it to many other problems of his/her interest. 
In part I, using an effective computational approach, we have reconstructed the population of dust sources between Jupiter and Neptune. Here, in part II, we present the results on distribution of dust produced by 157 real sources (100 Jupiter-family comets with semi-major axes $a<20$ AU, 51 Kuiper belt, and 6 Centaur objects) as well as 211 fictitious sources taken from our computed sample. The following processes that influence the dust particle dynamics are taken into account: 1) gravitational scattering on four giant planets; 2) planetary resonances; and 3) the Poynting-Robertson (P-R) and solar wind drags. A file consisting of $0.9\times 10^6$ particle positions has been computed to simulate the dust distribution in the outer parts of the Solar system. We find that this distribution is highly non-uniform, with most of the dust concentrating into four belts associated with the orbits of four giant planets, with a sharp rise (depending on the size of particles) at the innermost part of the ring. As in I, we reveal a rich and sophisticated resonant structure of these belts containing families of resonances and gaps. A dissipative nature of the P-R drag results in specific features of particle's capture into, and evolution in, the resonances. Based on our simulations, we expect a new, quasi-stationary dust population to exist in the belts near Jupiter and Saturn, which is highly inclined and possesses large eccentricities. This population is basically non-resonant and is an important addition to otherwise resonant dust belts. The simulated dust is likely the main source of the zodiacal light in the outer Solar system, which will be analyzed in our further work. 
A dynamical model for varying light velocity in cosmology is developed, based on the idea that there are two metrics in spacetime. One metric $g_{\mu\nu}$ describes the standard gravitational vacuum, and the other ${\hat g}_{\mu\nu} =g_{\mu\nu}+\beta\psi_\mu\psi_\nu$ describes the geometry through which matter fields propagate. Matter propagating causally with respect to $\hat{g}_{\mu\nu}$ can provide acausal contributions to the matter stress-energy tensor in the field equations for $g_{\mu\nu}$, which, as we explicitly demonstrate with perfect fluid and scalar field matter models, provides a mechanism for the solution of the horizon, flatness and magnetic monopole problems in an FRW universe. The field equations also provide a ``graceful exit'' to the inflationary epoch since below an energy scale (related to the mass of $\psi_\mu$) we recover exactly the standard FRW field equations. 
We studied possible evolution of the rotational period and the magnetic field of the X-ray source RX J0720.4-3125 assuming this source to be an isolated neutron star accreting from the interstellar medium. Magnetic field of the source is estimated to be $10^6 - 10^9$ Gs (most probably $\approx 2\cdot 10^8$ Gs), and it is difficult to explain the observable rotational period 8.38 s without invoking hypothesis of the magnetic field decay. We used the model of ohmic decay of the crustal magnetic field. The estimates of the accretion rate ($10^{-14} - 10^{-16} M_\odot/yr$), velocity of the source relative to the interstellar medium ($10 - 50 $ km/s), the neutron star age ($2\cdot 10^9 - 10^{10}$ yrs) are obtained. 
We propose a formula for flux of extremely high energy cosmic rays (EHECR) through decay of superheavy particles. It is shown that EHECR spectrum reported by AGASA is reproduced by the formula.   The presence of EHECR suggests, according to this approach, the existence of superheavy particles with mass of about $7 \times 10^{11}$GeV and the lifetime of about $10^9$ years.   Possibility to obtain a knowledge of $\Omega_0$ of the universe from the spectrum of EHECR is also pointed out. 
We present the results of three-dimensional numerical simulations of mass transfer in semi-detached binary systems in which the mass-losing star is rotating. The cases of aligned and misaligned non-synchronous rotation of the donor star are considered; the resulting flow patterns are compared to the synchronous case. The main properties of the flow, such as the formation of an circumbinary envelope, the absence of a "hot spot" on the edge of the accretion disk, and the formation of a shock wave along the flow edge, are qualitatively similar to those obtained earlier. For the case of misaligned, non-synchronous rotation, the behavior of the disk and surrounding matter in established flow regime reflects changes in the boundary conditions at the surface of the donor star; in other words, a "driven disk" model is realized in the calculations. 
We use rotation curve kinematics of 1000 spiral galaxies to investigate if these galaxies could host BH (Black Hole) remnants that once powered the QSO phenomenon. The rotation curves of both early and late-type spirals are used to place upper limits on the BH mass. We find that the central objects in spirals are 10-100 times less massive than those detected in ellipticals, suggesting that the contribution to the QSO phenomenon by the BH remnants hosted in these objects is negligible. The upper limits on the mass of the BHs resident in late type spirals are stringent: $M_{BH}\leq 10^{6}-10^{7} M_{\odot}$, indicating that only low luminosity activity possibly occurred in these objects. 
While all the cosmological observations are carried out on a light-cone, the null hypersurface of an observer at z=0, the clustering statistics has been properly defined only on the constant-time hypersurface. We develop a theoretical formulation for a two-point correlation function on the light-cone, and derive a practical approximate expression relevant to the discussion of clustering of high-redshift objects at large separations. As a specific example, we present predictions of the two-point correlation function for the Durham/AAT, SDSS and 2dF quasar catalogues. We also briefly discuss the effects of adopted luminosity function, cosmological parameters and bias models on the correlation function on the light-cone. 
We study the effect of inhomogeneities in the matter distribution of the universe on the Faraday rotation of light from distant QSOs and derive new limits on the cosmological magnetic field. The matter distribution in the Universe is far from being homogeneous and, for the redshifts of interest to rotation measures (RM), it is well described by the observed Ly-$\alpha$ forest. We use a log-normal distribution to model the Ly-$\alpha$ forest and assume that a cosmological magnetic field is frozen into the plasma and is therefore a function of the density inhomogeneities. The Ly-$\alpha$ forest results are much less sensitive to the cosmological magnetic field coherence length than those for a homogeneous universe and show an increase in the magnitude of the expected RM for a given field by over an order of magnitude. The forest also introduces a large scatter in RM for different lines-of-sight with a highly non-gaussian tail that renders the variance and the mean RM impractical for setting limits. The $median|{\rm RM}|$ is a better statistical indicator which we use to derive the following limits using the observed RM for QSOs between $z = 0$ and $z = 2.5$. We set $\Omega_b h^2 = 0.02$ and get for cosmological fields coherent accross the present horizon, $B_{H_0^{-1}} \la 10^{-9}$ G in the case of a Ly-$\alpha$ forest which is stronger than the limit for a homogeneous universe, $B_{H_0^{-1}}^h \la 2 \times 10^{-8}$ G; while for 50 Mpc coherence length, the inhomogeneous case gives $B_{50 {\rm Mpc}} \la 6 \times 10^{-9}$ G while the homogeneous limit is $B_{50 {\rm Mpc}}^h \la 10^{-7}$ G and for coherence length equal to the Jeans length, $B_{\lambda_J} \la 10^{-8}$ G for the Ly-$\alpha$ case while $B_{\lambda_J}^h \la 10^{-6}$ G. 
We report first results from the ``Streaming Motions of Abell Clusters'' (SMAC) project, an all-sky Fundamental Plane survey of 699 early-type galaxies in 56 clusters between ~3000 km/s and ~14000 km/s. For this sample, with a median distance of ~8000 km/s, we find a bulk flow of amplitude 630+/-200 km/s, towards l = 260+/-15, b = -1+/-12, with respect to the Cosmic Microwave Background. The flow is robust against the effects of individual clusters and data subsets, the choice of Galactic extinction maps, Malmquist bias and stellar population effects. The direction of the SMAC flow is ~90 degrees away from the flow found by Lauer & Postman, but is in good agreement with the gravity dipole predicted from the distribution of X-ray-luminous clusters. Our detection of a high-amplitude coherent flow on such a large scale argues for excess mass density fluctuation power at wavelengths >~ 60 h^-1 Mpc, relative to the predictions of currently-popular cosmological models. 
The interplay between gravitational and dispersive forces in a multi-streamed medium leads to an effect which is exposed in the present note as the genuine driving force of stabilization of large-scale structure. The conception of `adhesive gravitational clustering' is advanced to interlock the fairly well-understood epoch of formation of large-scale structure and the onset of virialization into objects that are dynamically in equilibrium with their large-scale structure environment. The classical `adhesion model' is opposed to a class of more general models traced from the physical origin of adhesion in kinetic theory. 
We carried out an extensive RXTE campaign, in 1997 June, to study Circinus X-1 during the active portion of its 16.55-d intensity cycle. The observations spanned 10 days, including 56% coverage for 7 d, and allowed us to find time segments which clearly demonstrate continuous evolution along the horizontal, normal, and flaring branches (HB/NB/FB) of a Z-source low-mass X-ray binary. These results confirm and extend the behavior we inferred from earlier observations. Here we study the continuous evolution of the Fourier power spectra and the energy spectra around the complete hardness-intensity track. A narrow quasi-periodic oscillation (QPO) peak, previously observed in the power spectra at 1.3-32 Hz, increases in frequency from 12 Hz to 25 Hz moving down a vertical extension of the HB in the hardness-intensity diagram. These horizontal branch QPOs (HBOs) occur near 30 Hz and fade in strength on the horizontal portion of the HB, while a broad peak in the power spectrum arises near 4 Hz. This peak becomes much more prominent along the NB and remains near 4 Hz (the normal branch QPOs, or NBOs). On the FB, neither QPO is present and the power spectrum is dominated by very low frequency noise. We also found that each branch of the spectral track is associated with a specific type of evolution of the energy spectrum. We explored various models for the energy spectrum and parameterized the evolution of the spectrum in terms of a two-component model consisting of a multi-temperature "disk blackbody" and a higher-temperature (~2 keV) blackbody. We also show that an unusual line- or edge-like feature occurs at ~10 keV in energy spectra from the FB and lower NB. This unusual feature is very similar to one seen on the FB and lower NB of the Z source GX 5-1. 
Cosmic ray nuclei, cosmic ray electrons with energy above a few GeV, and the diffuse gamma-ray background radiation (GBR) above a few MeV, presumed to be extragalactic, could all have their origin or residence in our galaxy and its halo. The mechanism accelerating hadrons and electrons is the same, the electron spectrum is modulated by inverse Compton scattering on starlight and on the microwave background radiation; the $\gamma$-rays are the resulting recoiling photons. The spectral indices of the cosmic-ray electrons and of the GBR, calculated on this simple basis, agree with observations. The angular dependence and the approximate magnitude of the GBR are also explained. 
Recent observations with the large air shower arrays of ultra high energy cosmic rays (UHECR) and recent measurements/estimates of the redshifts of gamma ray bursts (GRBs) seem to rule out extragalactic GRBs as the source of the cosmic rays that are observed near Earth, including those with the highest energies. 
We present new spectroscopic observations of 5 galaxies, members of the unusually active compact group HCG 16, observed using the Palomar 5m telescope. The high signal to noise ratios (S/N $\sim 70$) of the spectra allow us to study the variation of the emission line characteristics and the stellar populations in the nucleus and the circumnuclear regions of the galaxies. The emission line characteristics of these galaxies are complex, varying between Seyfert 2 and LINERs or between LINERs and starbursts. All of the galaxies show traces of intermediate age stellar populations, supporting our previous result that post-starburst galaxies are common in compact groups. The galaxies HCG16--4 and HCG16--5 show double nuclei and therefore could be two cases of recent merger. Our observations support a scenario where HCG 16 was formed by the successive merger of metal poor, low mass galaxies. The galaxies HCG16--1 and HCG16--2, which are more evolved, form the old core of the group. Galaxies HCG16--4 and HCG16--5 are two more recent additions still in a merging phase. Galaxy HCG16--5 is a starburst galaxy which is just beginning to fall into the core. If HCG 16 is representative of compact groups in their early stage, the whole set of observations implies that the formation of compact groups is the result of hierarchical galaxy formation. HCG 16 could be one example of this process operating in the local universe. 
In AE Aqr, magnetic fields transfer energy and angular momentum from a rapidly spinning white dwarf to material in the gas stream from the companion star, with the effect of spinning down the white dwarf while flinging the gas stream material out of the binary system. This magnetic propeller produces a host of observable signatures, chief among which are broad single-peaked flaring emission lines with phase-shifted orbital kinematics. SW Sex stars have accretion disks, but also broad single-peaked phase-shifted emission lines similar to those seen in AE Aqr. We propose that a magnetic propeller similar to that which operates in AE Aqr is also at work in SW Sex stars -- and to some extent in all nova-like systems. The propeller is anchored in the inner accretion disk, rather than or in addition to the white dwarf. Energy and angular momentum are thereby extracted from the inner disk and transferred to gas stream material flowing above the disk, which is consequently pitched out of the system. This provides a non-local dissipationless angular momentum extraction mechanism, which should result in cool inner disks with temperature profiles flatter than $T\propto R^{-3/4}$, as observed in eclipse mapping studies of nova-like variables. The disk-anchored magnetic propeller model appears to explain qualitatively most if not all of the peculiar features of the SW Sex syndrome. 
NGC 5905 is one of the very few galaxies that underwent a giant X-ray outburst, with a change in ROSAT photon countrate of a factor ~100. The outburst spectrum is both, very soft and luminous. Our high-resolution follow-up optical spectroscopy of NGC 5905 does not reveal any signs of Seyfert activity. At present, this makes NGC 5905 the only non-active galaxy among the X-ray outbursting ones. We discuss several scenarios to account for the exceptional properties of NGC 5905, including a supernova in dense medium, an accretion-disk instability, an event of extreme gravitational lensing, and the X-ray afterglow of a GRB to account for the X-ray outburst. We find that the most likely model to explain the observations seems to be tidal disruption of a star by a central SMBH, a scenario proposed by Rees (1988) as a tracer of SMBHs in nearby non-active galaxies. The X-ray outburst in this HII galaxy then lends further support to the scenario that all galaxies passed through an active phase, leaving dormant SMBHs in their centers. 
We study the corrections to the conformal evolution of primordial magnetic fields after recombination, produced by the fall of the ionized fraction of matter into the dark matter gravitational wells. This effect enhances the field around the protostructures being formed, and might help to understand the fields observed in galaxy clusters and hydrogen clouds. 
Under the hypothesis that some fraction of massive stellar core collapses give rise to unusually energetic events, termed hypernovae, I examine the required rates assuming some fraction of such events yield gamma ray bursts. I then discuss evidence from studies of pulsars and r-process nucleosynthesis that independently suggests the existence of a class of unusually energetic events. Finally I describe a scenario which links these different lines of evidence as supporting the hypernova hypothesis. 
We here investigate the possibility that the observed collimated outflows in luminous infrared galaxies (LIGs) and some Seyfert galaxies can be produced in a starburst (SB) environment. A nuclear disk can be quickly produced by gas infall during star formation in a rotating, stellar cluster. We find that massive nuclear SBs with core disk masses M_d \sim 10^8 - 10^9 M_{\odot}, and supernova rates \nu_{SN} \simeq 5 \times 10^{-3} - 2 yr^{-1} (which are consistent with the \nu_{SN} values inferred from the observed non-thermal radio power in source candidates) may inject kinetic energies which are high enough to blow out directed flows from the accreting disk surface, within the SB lifetimes. In our models, the acceleration and collimation of the nuclear outflow are provided by magnetic fields anchored into the rotating SB-disk. The emerging outflow carries a kinetic power that is only a small fraction (a few percent) of the supernovae energy rate produced in the SB. Based on conditions determined from observed outflows and disks, we find that moderate disk magnetic fields (\gtrsim 8 \times 10^{-4} G) are able to accelerate the outflows up to the observed terminal velocities (\lesssim few 100 km s^{-1} in the case of the Seyfert galaxies, and \sim 400 - 950 km s^{-1} in the case of the LIGs). The outflow is produced within a wind zone in the disk of radius \lesssim 100 pc in the LIGs, and \lesssim 10 pc in the Seyferts, with wind mass loss to disk accretion rate ratios \dot M_w /\dot M_d \gtrsim 0.1 (where \dot M_d \sim 100 M_{\odot} yr^{-1}). The observation of rotating nuclear disks of gas within few 100 pc scales in source candidates like the LIG Arp 220, and magnetized outflows provide observational support for the picture drawn here. 
This talk describes an analytic calculation of the position of the first accoustic peak as a function of the matter density and the cosmological constant (work with Y.J. Ng and R. Rohm), agreeing with independent numerical studies. There is also discussion of supernovae observations and how together these approaches combine to suggest non-zero cosmological constant. An alternative to a constant vacuum density - quintessence - is mentioned. 
There is a discussion of the temperature anisotropy of the cosmic background radiation and of how the first Doppler peak depends on the different contributions to the vacuum energy density. An analytic calculation agrees well with numerical studies and shows that the l-value of the peak depends almost entirely on the geometry of the geodesics since recombination, and not sensitively on the details of the photon-baryon accoustic waves prior to the last scattering. This, and supernovae observations, suggest the cosmological constant is not zero. 
We use combinations of ten small-scale cosmic microwave background anisotropy data sets from the UCSB South Pole 1994, ARGO, MAX 4 and 5, White Dish and SuZIE experiments to constrain cosmogonies. We consider open and spatially-flat-Lambda cold dark matter cosmogonies. Marginalizing over all parameters but $\Omega_0$, the combined data favors an Omega_0 simeq 1 for both open and flat-Lambda models. Excluding the smallest angular scale SuZIE data, an Omega_0 simeq 0.3 (1.0) open (flat-Lambda) model is favored. Considering only multi-frequency data with error bars consistent with sample variance and noise considerations, an Omega_0 simeq 0.1 (1) open (flat-Lambda) model is favored. For both open and flat-$\Lambda$ models, after marginalizing over all the other parameters, a lower Omega_B h^2 (sim 0.005) or younger (t_0 sim 10 Gyr) universe is favored. However, the data do not rule out other values of Omega_0 in the flat-Lambda model and other values of Omega_B h^2 in both models. (abriged) 
We consider the possibility of time variations of the solar neutrino flux due to the radial motion of the Earth and neutrino interference effects. We calculate the time variations of the detected neutrino flux and the extent to which they are suppressed by Coulomb collisions of the neutrino emitting nuclei. To properly treat the collisions, it is necessary to simultaneously include in our analysis all other significant physical decoherence effects: the energy averaging and the averaging over the position of neutrino emission.   A simple and clear physical picture of the time dependent solar neutrino problem is presented and qualitative coherence criteria are discussed. Exact results for the detected neutrino flux and its time variations are obtained for both the case of a solar neutrino line, and the case of the continuous neutrino spectrum with a Gaussian shape of the energy response function of the neutrino detector. We give accurate constraints on the vacuum mixing angle and the neutrino masses required for flux time variations to not be suppressed.   Pac(s): 26.65.+t, 14.60.Pq, 96.60.Jw 
We investigate the influence of the star formation rate on the Tully-Fisher relation. We find that a simple model which combines the empirically-determined star-formation rate with the expected properties of galaxy halos provides a remarkably good fit to the absolute magnitude-rotation speed correlation. We find that the power-law nature, its slope, normalisation and scatter, are all readily accounted for if the Universe has a low density parameter, with or without a cosmological constant and disks are assembled at $z \sim 1 - 1.5$. Moreover, this agreement is found simultaneously in 4 wavebands. An Einstein-de Sitter Universe produces disks which are too faint unless the disks are assembled at $z\sim 0.5$. The scatter in the relation is due to a combination of the expected range of spin parameters of the halos and the range of formation redshifts. The source of the scatter opens up possibilities of a better galaxy distance indicator, if spectroscopic observations of globular clusters can be used to determine the halo rotation. 
The ROSAT Deep Cluster Survey (RDCS) has provided a new large deep sample of X-ray selected galaxy clusters. Observables such as the flux number counts n(S), the redshift distribution n(z) and the X-ray luminosity function (XLF) over a large redshift baseline (z\lesssim 0.8) are used here in order to constrain cosmological models. Our analysis is based on the Press-Schechter approach, whose reliability is tested against N-body simulations. Following a phenomenological approach, no assumption is made a priori on the relation between cluster masses and observed X-ray luminosities. As a first step, we use the local XLF from RDCS, along with the high-luminosity extension provided by the XLF from the BCS, in order to constrain the amplitude of the power spectrum, \sigma_8, and the shape of the local luminosity-temperature relation. We obtain \sigma_8=0.58 +/- 0.06 for Omega_0=1 for open models at 90% confidence level, almost independent of the L-T shape. The density parameter \Omega_0 and the evolution of the L-T relation are constrained by the RDCS XLF at z>0 and the EMSS XLF at z=0.33, and by the RDCS n(S) and n(z) distributions. By modelling the evolution for the amplitude of the L-T relation as (1+z)^A, an \Omega_0=1 model can be accommodated for the evolution of the XLF with 1<A<3 at 90% confidence level, while \Omega_0=0.4^{+0.3}_{-0.2} and \Omega_0<0.6 are implied by a non--evolving L-T for open and flat models, respectively. 
Hard X-ray radiation has been detected for the first time in the Coma cluster by BeppoSAX. Thanks to the unprecedented sensitivity of the Phoswich Detection System (PDS) instrument, the source has been detected up to ~80 keV. There is clear evidence (4.5 sigma) for non-thermal emission in excess of thermal above ~25 keV. The hard excess is very unlikely due to X Comae, the Seyfert 1 galaxy present in the field of view of the PDS. A hard spectral tail due to inverse Compton on CMB photons is predicted in clusters, like Coma, with radio halos. Combining the present results with radio observations, a volume-averaged intracluster magnetic field of ~0.15 micro G is derived, while the electron energy density of the emitting electrons is ~7x10**-14 erg/cm**3. 
We compare models of line-driven winds from accretion discs and single spherical stars. We look at the problem of scaling mass-loss rates and velocities of stellar and disc winds with model parameters. We find that stellar and disc winds driven by radiation, within the CAK framework, are very similar as far as mass-loss rates and velocities are concerned. Thus we can use analytic results for stellar winds to rescale, in a first order approximation, numerical results for disc winds. We also show how the CAK stellar solutions change when we take into account effects of very low luminosities or line-driving force. 
We show that the outcome of disc instability models is strongly influenced by boundary conditions such as the position of the inner and outer disc edges. We discuss other sources of uncertainties, such as the tidal torque, and we conclude that disc illumination, disk size variations and a proper prescription for the tidal torque must be included in models if one wishes to extract meaningful physical information on e.g. viscosity from the comparison of predicted and observed lightcurves. 
The Cepheids' P-L relation got itself talked about again in the recent past due to claims of observed metallicity dependences of at least its zero point. The divergences of the observational results obtained by the different authors are large, however. Therefore, to date the situation concerning the magnitude and the reliability of the effect is rather uncertain on the observational side. Along the theoretical avenue, some progress towards more realistic and in particular more consistent Cepheid modeling has been achieved recently. Upper limits on the reaction of the P-L relation on assumptions in evolution computations, pulsation stability analyses, and mappings onto photometric passbands can be estimated now quite reliably. This informal review discusses some of the progress (relying mostly on an extensive comparison by Sandage et al. 1998) and it emphasizes modeling problems which still have to be overcome to finalize the theoretical foundation of the Cepheids' P-L relation. 
The quasar in the Hubble Deep Field South (HDFS), J2233-606 (z=2.23) has been exhaustively observed by ground based telescopes and by the STIS spectrograph on board the Hubble Space Telescope at low, medium and high resolution in the spectral interval from 1120 A to 10000 A. This very large base-line represents a unique opportunity to study in detail the distribution of clouds associated with emitting structures in the field of the quasar and in nearby fields already observed as part of the HDFS campaign. Here we report the main properties of the Lyman-alpha clouds in the intermediate redshift range 1.20-2.20, where our present knowledge has been complicated by the difficulty in producing good data. The number density is shown to be higher than what is expected by extrapolating the results from both lower and higher redshifts: 63\pm8 lines with log N_{HI}\geq14.0 are found (including metal systems) at <z>=1.7, to be compared with ~40 lines predicted by extrapolating from previous studies. The redshift distribution of the Lyman-alpha clouds shows a region spanning z=1.383-1.460 (comoving size of 94 h^{-1}_{65} Mpc, Omega_o=1) with a low density of absorption lines; we detect 5 lines in this region, compared with the 16 expected from an average density along the line of sight. The two point correlation function shows a positive signal up to scales of about 3 h^{-1}_{65} Mpc and an amplitude that is larger for larger HI column densities. The average Doppler parameter is about 27 km/s, comparable to the mean value found at z > 3, thus casting doubts on the temperature evolution of the Lyman-alpha clouds. 
We have found compact X-ray sources in the center of 21 (54%) of 39 nearby face-on spiral and elliptical galaxies with available ROSAT HRI data. ROSAT X-ray luminosities (0.2 - 2.4 keV) of these compact X-ray sources are ~ 1e37 - 1e40 erg/s (with a mean of 3e39 erg/s. The mean displacement between the location of the compact X-ray source and the optical photometric center of the galaxy is ~ 390 pc. The fact that compact nuclear sources were found in nearly all (five of six) galaxies with previous evidence for a black hole or an AGN indicates that at least some of the X-ray sources are accreting supermassive black holes. ASCA spectra of six of the 21 galaxies show the presence of a hard component with relatively steep (Gamma approx 2.5) spectral slope. A multicolor disk blackbody model fits the data from the spiral galaxies well, suggesting that the X-ray object in these galaxies may be similar to a Black Hole Candidate in its soft (high) state. ASCA data from the elliptical galaxies indicate that hot (kT approx 0.7 keV) gas dominates the emission. The fact that (for both spiral and elliptical galaxies) the spectral slope is steeper than in normal type 1 AGNs and that relatively low absorbing columns (N_H approx 1e21 /cm2) were found to the power-law component indicates that these objects are somehow geometrically and/or physically different from AGNs in normal active galaxies. The X-ray sources in the spiral and elliptical galaxies may be black hole X-ray binaries, low-luminosity AGNs, or possibly young X-ray luminous supernovae. Assuming the sources in the spiral galaxies are accreting black holes in their soft state, we estimate black hole masses ~ 1e2 - 1e4 solar masses. 
We consider harmonic maps from Minkowski space into the three sphere. We are especially interested in solutions which are asymptotically constant, i.e. converge to the same value in all directions of spatial infinity. Physical 3-space can then be compactified and can be identified topologically (but not metrically!) with a three sphere. Therefore, at fixed time, the winding of the map is defined. We investigate whether static solutions with non-trivial winding number exist. The answer which we can proof here is only partial: We show that within a certain family of maps no static solutions with non-zero winding number exist. We discuss the existing static solutions in our family of maps. An extension to other maps or a proof that our family of maps is sufficiently general remains an open problem. 
Properties of normal galactic star formation, including the density dependence, threshold density, turbulent scaling relations, and clustering properties, are applied to the formation of galactic bulges. One important difference is that the bulge potential well is too deep to have allowed self-regulation or blow-out by the pressures from young stars, unlike galactic disks or dwarf galaxies. As a result, bulge formation should have been at the maximum rate, which is such that most of the gas would get converted into stars in only a few dynamical time scales, or ~10^8 years. The gas accretion phase can be longer than this, but once the critical density is reached, which depends primarily on the total virial density from dark matter, the formation of stars in the bulge should have been extremely rapid. Such three-dimensional star formation should also have formed many clusters, like normal disk star formation today. Some of these clusters may have survived as old globulars, but most got dispersed, although they might still be observable as concentrated streams in phase space. 
In a recent paper, Farrar and Biermann argue that there is a strong correlation between the direction of the five highest-energy cosmic-ray events and compact, radio-loud quasars. This Comment shows that this analysis contains several inconsistencies and errors so that the significance of any such correlation is certainly greatly overestimated and perhaps nonexistent. 
We present new determinations of effective temperature, surface gravity, and masses for a sample of 46 hot DA white dwarfs selected from the EUVE and ROSAT Wide Field Camera bright source lists in the course of a near-IR survey for low mass companions. Our analysis, based on hydrogen NLTE model atmospheres, provides a map of LTE correction vectors, which allow a thorough comparison with previous LTE studies. We find previous studies underestimate both the systematic errors and the observational scatter in the determination of white dwarf parameters obtained via fits to model atmospheres.   The structure of very hot or low mass white dwarfs depends sensitively on their history. To compute white dwarf masses, we thus use theoretical mass-radius relations that take into account the complete evolution from the main sequence. We find a peak mass of our white dwarf sample of 0.59 solar masses, in agreement with the results of previous analyses. However, we do not confirm a trend of peak mass with temperature reported in two previous analyses.   Analogous to other EUV selected samples, we note a lack of low mass white dwarfs, and a large fraction of massive white dwarfs. Only one is likely to have a helium core. While the lack of helium white dwarfs in our sample can be easily understood from their high cooling rate and therefore low detection probability in our temperature range, this is not enough to explain the large fraction of massive white dwarfs. This feature very likely results from a decreased relative sample volume for low mass white dwarfs caused by interstellar absorption in EUV selected samples. 
We present limits on the fraction of large angle microwave anisotropies which could come from tensor perturbations. We use the COBE results as well as smaller scale CMB observations, measurements of galaxy correlations, abundances of galaxy clusters, and Lyman alpha absorption cloud statistics. Our aim is to provide conservative limits on the tensor-to-scalar ratio for standard inflationary models. For power-law inflation, for example, we find T/S<0.52 at 95% confidence, with a similar constraint for phi^p potentials. However, for models with tensor amplitude unrelated to the scalar spectral index it is still currently possible to have T/S>1. 
The study of high-velocity clouds has progressed much since the appearance of the review article by Wakker & van Woerden (1997), less than two years ago. Much of this progress is described in these workshop proceedings. Here we update the review article, summarizing the topics discussed at the workshop as well as covering the recent literature. We follow the outline of the review, describing HI properties in Sect. 2 and 3, interactions between HVCs and other gas in Sect. 4, observations at wavelengths other than 21-cm in Sects. 5 and 6, absorption-line studies of metallicities and distances in Sects. 7 and 8, extra-galactic HVCs in Sect. 9, the Magellanic Stream in Sect. 10, and a discussion of HVC origins in Sect. 11. Key contributions of the past two years include (a) the first determination of a distance bracket for an HVC: d=4-10 kpc for Complex A (van Woerden et al. 1999); (b) the first determinations of a true metallicity: 1/4 solar for HVC 287+22+240 (Lu et al. 1998), and 1/10 solar Complex~C (Wakker et al. 1999); (c) the recognition of a leading counterpart to the Magellanic Stream (Gardiner & Noguchi 1996; Lu et al. 1998; Putman et al. 1998), indicative of a tidal origin; (d) the quickly growing number of optical emission line observations (primarily H-alpha) of HVCs, led by Tufte et al. (1998) and Bland-Hawthorn et al. (1998); and (e) the proposal by Blitz et al. (1999) that HVCs are intergalactic remnants of the formation of the Local Group. 
We calculate the flux of $\gamma$-rays emitted from primordial black holes (PBHs) which are formed by a ``blue'' power-law spectrum of density fluctuations in the early universe. Gamma-ray emission from such PBHs may contribute significantly to the observed extragalactic diffuse $\gamma$-ray background (DGB). Using the observed DGB flux from the imaging Compton Telescope (COMPTEL) and the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) as the upper limit of $\gamma$-ray flux from PBHs, we derive the upper limit on the spectral index $n$ of the density fluctuations. The range of initial PBH masses which can contribute to the DGB is $2\times 10^{13}\g - 5\times 10^{14}\g$, corresponding to a cosmic reheating temperature of $7\times 10^{7}\gev - 4\times 10^{8} \gev$. In this range, we find the upper limit to be $n \lsim 1.23-1.25$. This limit is stronger than those derived from the energy density in PBHs or PBH relics and matches the value of $n$ required to explain the cosmic microwave background anisotropy. 
We have used a set of archived HST/WFPC2 exposures of the inner regions of the Crab Nebula to obtain a new measurement of the pulsar proper motion, the first after the original work of Wyckoff & Murray, more than 20 years ago. Our measurement of the pulsar displacement, mu = 18 +/- 3 mas/yr, agrees well with the value obtained previously. This is noteworthy, since the data we have used span less than 2 years, as opposed to the 77 years required in the previous work. With a position angle of 292 +/- 10 deg, the proper motion vector appears aligned with the axis of symmetry of the inner Crab nebula, as defined by the direction of the X-ray jet observed by ROSAT. Indeed, if the neutron star rotation is to be held responsible both for the X-ray jet and for the observed symmetry, the Crab could provide an example of alignment between spin axis and proper motion. 
We present the results of medium resolution (Delta v = 60 km/s) spectropolarimetric observations across Halpha of a sample of B[e] and Herbig Be objects. A change in linear polarization across Halpha is detected in a large fraction of the objects. Halpha in the spectra of HD 37806 and HD 50138 each consist of a double-peaked polarized line and a superposed unpolarized single emission peak, suggesting two distinct line-forming regions. Multiple observations of HD 45677 allow for the separation of electron and dust scattering effects for the first time: the data indicate that the dust-scattering region is clumpy. Two unexpected results are the non-detections of Halpha polarization changes in omega Ori, where depolarization has previously been detected, and in MWC 297, which exhibits source elongation at radio wavelengths. In omega Ori time variability is probably responsible such that this star's electron-scattering disk was much weakened at the time of observation. Two hypotheses are advanced that might explain the MWC 297 result. The general findings are that roughly half of the observed Herbig Be stars show polarization changes across Halpha, implying immediately that their ionized envelopes are not spherically symmetric. This pattern, if confirmed by observations of a larger sample, could indicate that the non-detection rate is simply a consequence of sampling randomly-oriented circumstellar disks able to scatter starlight within a few stellar radii. The stars classified as B[e] stars all show startling polarization changes across Halpha. The details in each case are different, but the widely accepted concept of dense Halpha emitting equatorial disks around these objects is supported. 
Recently, Dixon et al. have re-analyzed the EGRET data, finding a statistically significant diffuse $\gamma$-ray emission from the galactic halo. We show that this emission can naturally be explained within a previously-proposed model for baryonic dark matter, in which $\gamma$-rays are produced through the interaction of high-energy cosmic-ray protons with cold $H_2$ clouds clumped into dark clusters - these dark clusters supposedly populate the outer galactic halo and can show up in microlensing observations. Our estimate for the halo $\gamma$-ray flux turns out to be in remarkably good agreement with the discovery by Dixon et al. We also address future prospects to test our predictions. 
We report on a near-infrared adaptive optics survey of a sample of 66 low-mass members of the pre-main sequence stellar cluster IC 348. We find 12 binary systems in the separation range 0.1-8.0 arcsec. An estimate of the number of faint undetected companions is derived, before we evaluate the binary frequency in this cluster. In the orbital period range log P=5.0-7.9 days, the binary fraction in IC 348 is 19+/-5 %.This is similar to the values correspondings to G- and M-dwarfs populations in the solar neigbourhood.   Substellar companions are found to be rare, or even missing, as companions of low-mass stars in the separation range we surveyed. Also, the mass ratio distribution is not peaked at q=1.   We do not find any evidence for an evolution of the binary frequency with age within the age spread of the cluster of about 10 Myr. We conclude that there is no temporal evolution of the binary fraction between a few Myrs after the formation process, the zero-age main sequence and the field population. We find instead a trend for the binary fraction to be inversely correlated with stellar density, with only loose associations exhibiting an excess of binaries. Either all star-forming regions initially host a large number of binaries, which is subsequently reduced only in dense clusters on a timescale of less than 1 Myr due to numerous gravitational encounters, or specific initial conditions in the parental molecular clouds impact on the fragmentation process leading to intrinsically different binary fractions. 
This paper uses the caustic crossing events in the microlens data sets to explore the nature and location of the lenses. We conclude that the large majority of lenses, whether they are luminous or dark, are likely to be binaries. Further, we demonstrate that blending is an important feature of all the data sets. An additional interpretation suggested by the data, that the caustic crossing events along the directions to the Magellanic Clouds are due to lenses located in the Clouds, implies that most of the LMC/SMC events to date are due to lenses in the Magellanic Clouds. All of these conclusions can be tested. If they are correct, a large fraction of lenses along the direction to the LMC may be ordinary stellar binary systems, just as are the majority of the lenses along the direction to the Bulge. Thus, a better understanding of the larger-than-anticipated value derived for the Bulge optical depth may allow us to better interpret the large value derived for the optical depth to the LMC. Indeed, binarity and blending in the data sets may illuminate connections among several other puzzles: the dearth of binary-source light curves, the dearth of non-caustic-crossing perturbed binary-lens events, and the dearth of obviously blended point-lens events. 
We use three--integral models to infer the distribution function (DF) of the boxy E3-E4 galaxy NGC 1600 from surface brightness and line profile data on the minor and major axes. We assume axisymmetry and that the mass-to-light ratio is constant in the central ~1 R_e. Stars in the resulting gravitational potential move mainly on regular orbits. We use an approximate third integral K from perturbation theory, and write the DF as a sum of basis functions in the three integrals E, L_z and K. We then fit the projected moments of these basis functions to the kinematic observables and deprojected density, using a non-parametric algorithm.   The deduced dynamical structure is radially anisotropic, with sigma_theta/sigma_r ~ sigma_phi/sigma_r ~ 0.7 on the major axis. Both on the minor axis and near the centre the velocity distribution is more isotropic; thus the model is flattened by equatorial radial orbits. The kinematic data is fit without need for a central black hole; the central mass determined previously from ground-based data therefore overestimates the actual black hole mass. The mass-to-light ratio of the stars is M/L_V = 6 h_50.   The anisotropy structure of NGC 1600 with a radially anisotropic main body and more nearly isotropic centre is similar to that found recently in NGC 1399, NGC 2434, NGC 3379 and NGC 6703, suggesting that this pattern may be common amongst massive elliptical galaxies. We discuss a possible merger origin of NGC 1600 in the light of these results. 
We determine 37 differential extinctions in 23 gravitational lens galaxies over the range 0 < z_l < 1. Only 7 of the 23 systems have spectral differences consistent with no differential extinction. The median differential extinction for the optically-selected (radio-selected) subsample is E(B-V)=0.04 (0.06) mag. The extinction is patchy and shows no correlation with impact parameter. The median total extinction of the bluest images is E(B-V)=0.08 mag, although the total extinction distribution is dominated by the uncertainties in the intrinsic colors of quasars. The directly measured extinction distributions are consistent with the mean extinction estimated by comparing the statistics of quasar and radio lens surveys, thereby confirming the need for extinction corrections when using the statistics of lensed quasars to estimate the cosmological model. A disjoint subsample of two face-on, radio-selected spiral lenses shows both high differential and total extinctions, but standard dust-to-gas ratios combined with the observed molecular gas column densities overpredict the amount of extinction by factors of 2-5. For several systems we can estimate the extinction law, ranging from R_V=1.5+/-0.2 for a z_l=0.96 elliptical, to R_V=7.2+/-0.1 for a z_l=0.68 spiral. For the four radio lenses where we can construct non-parametric extinction curves we find no evidence for gray dust over the IR-UV wavelength range. The dust can be used to estimate lens redshifts with reasonable accuracy, although we sometimes find two degenerate redshift solutions. 
We present photoionization models of the optical and IR coronal line spectrum in NGC1068 and the Circinus galaxy. The line fluxes have been calculated using (a) a non-thermal (nuclear) continuum source and (b) the non-thermal continuum plus a UV bump due to a stellar cluster. We take into account the effect of attenuation of these continua by gas with column density $10^{22} cm^{-2}$ located between the nucleus and the coronal line region. The calculated coronal line ratios are in a good agreement with those observed in NGC1068 for a model in which about 40% of the line emission comes from gas illuminated by unattenuated, non-thermal continuum, and about 60% from gas illuminated by attenuated, non-thermal continuum. The electron density of the coronal line emitting gas in NGC1068 is found to be $10^4 cm^{-3}$. In the Circinus galaxy the coronal line emission comes from gas with electron density $10^3 cm^{-3}$ illuminated entirely by attenuated, non-thermal continuum. The derived ionization parameters for both coronal line regions are very similar, but the different densities imply a higher ionizing photon flux in NGC1068, consistent with the higher observed excitation state of the line emitting gas in that galaxy. A possible geometry of the coronal line region of both galaxies is discussed, in which the distribution of the attenuating gas may be strongly affected by the relative strength of the nuclear radio-jet. The stronger radio-jet in NGC1068 may have cleared a channel through the NLR allowing some unattenuated nuclear continuum to illuminate part of the coronal line region. 
We demonstrate that conservation of global helicity plays only a minor role in determining the nature and consequences of magnetic reconnection in the solar atmosphere. First, we show that observations of the solar coronal magnetic field are in direct conflict with Taylor's theory. Next, we present results from three-dimensional MHD simulations of the shearing of bipolar and multi-polar coronal magnetic fields by photospheric footpoint motions, and discuss the implications of these results for Taylor's theory and for models of solar activity. The key conclusion of this work is that significant magnetic reconnection occurs only at very specific locations and, hence, the Sun's magnetic field cannot relax completely down to the minimum energy state predicted by conservation of global helicity. 
We consider anisotropies in the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) generated by spatially limited seeds; these objects could correspond to relics of high energy symmetry breaking in the early universe. It is shown how the CMB perturbation propagate beyond the size of the seed in the form of waves traveling with the CMB sound velocity. Moreover, these waves are the substantial part of the signal, both for polarization and temperature. The explanation of this phenomenology in terms of the CMB equations is given.   Observationally, this effect is threefold promising. First, it enlarges the signal from a seed intersecting the last scattering surface to the scale of the CMB sound horizon at decoupling, that is roughly one degree in the sky. Second, it offers cross correlation possibilities between the polarization and temperature signals. Third, it allows to unambiguously distinguish these structures from point-like astrophysical sources. 
Various issues concerning the impact of inflationary models on parameter estimation from the cosmic microwave background are reviewed, with particular focus on the range of possible outcomes of inflationary models and on the amount which might be learnt about inflation from the microwave background. 
Spectroscopic observations at 2.4 - 45 microns of the young supernova remnant Cas A with the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) Short Wavelength Spectrometer (SWS) reveal strong emission lines of O, Ne, Si, S, and Ar. These lines are observed at high velocities (several thousand km/s), and are therefore associated with the supernova ejecta known as the fast-moving knots (FMKs). Continuum emission from dust is also seen in the Cas A spectrum. The continuum strength is spatially well correlated with the O and Ar line strengths, indicating that the dust emission also arises from the FMKs. The dust continuum has an emission feature at ~22 microns which cannot be fit by typical astronomical silicates, but can be fit with a particular class of silicate minerals. This suggests that the dust in Cas A is silicate material that has freshly condensed from the Cas A ejecta into a mineral form that is uncharacteristic of typical ISM dust grains. 
On the basis of new theoretical results useful predictions concerning the Period-Luminosity (PLR) and Period-Luminosity-Color (PLCR) relations both for optical and infrared magnitudes are presented. It is shown that, following the dependence of the instability strip on metallicity, there is a non negligible dependence of the PLRs and PLCRs on the metallicity of the pulsating stars, mainly for optical bands. In particular theoretical results predict a dependence of the PLR on metals which is reversed with respect to current empirical evaluations. To give a possible explanation for this discrepancy the typical observational procedures used to estimate extragalactic distances through Cepheid PLRs are here tested, with the aim of disentangling, if possible, the reddening and metallicity effects. To this purpose, synthetic PLRs for different metallicities were produced and treated as typical observational samples. 
We present an analysis of photometric and spectroscopic observations of the symbiotic binary system RX Pup with the aims of developing a reliable binary for the system and identifying mechanisms responsible for its spectacular activity. The binary is composed of a long-perod Mira variable surrounded by a thick dust shell and a hot white dwarf companion. The hot component produces practically all activity observed in the UV, optical and radio range, while variable obscuration of the Mira by circumstellar dust is responsible for long-term changes in the near-IR magnitudes. The observations show RX Pup underwent a nova-like eruption during the last three decades. The hot component contracted in radius at roughly constant luminosity from 1975 to 1986, and was the source of a strong stellar wind which prevented it from accreting material lost in the Mira wind. Around 1988/9 the hot component turned over in the HR diagram and by 1991 its luminosity had faded by a factor of about 30 with respect to the maximum plateau value and the hot wind had practically ceased. By 1995 the nova remnant started to accrete material from the Mira wind, as indicated by a general increase in intensity of the optical continuum and HI emission. The quiescent spectrum resembles the quiescent spectra of symbiotic recurrent novae, and its intensity indicates the hot component must accrete as much as about 1 per cent of the Mira wind, which is more or less the amount predicted by Bondi-Hoyle theory. The earliest observational records from the 1890s suggest that another nova-like eruption of RX Pup occurred around 1894. 
Foreground emission and scattered light from interplanetary dust (IPD) particles and emission from Galactic stellar sources are the greatest obstacles for determining the cosmic infrared background (CIB) from diffuse sky measurements in the ~ 1 to 5 micron range. We describe a new method for deriving the CIB at near infrared wavelengths which reduces the uncertainties associated with the removal of the Galactic stellar emission component from the sky maps. The method produces positive residuals at 3.5 and 4.9 microns, of which only the 3.5 micron residual is nearly isotropic. We consider our result as a tentative detection of the CIB at this wavelength. 
We compare results from a relativistic and a nonrelativistic set of 2D axisymmetric jet simulations. For a set of five relativistic simulations that either increase the Lorentz factor or decrease the adiabatic index we compute nonrelativistic simulations with equal useful power or thrust. We examine these simulations for morphological and dynamical differences, focusing on the velocity field, the width of the cocoon, the age of the jets, and the internal structure of the jet itself. The primary result of these comparisons is that the velocity field of nonrelativistic jet simulations cannot be scaled up to give the spatial distribution of Lorentz factors seen in relativistic simulations. Since the local Lorentz factor plays a major role in determining the total intensity for parsec scale extragalactic jets, this suggests that a nonrelativistic simulation cannot yield the proper intensity distribution for a relativistic jet. Another general result is that each relativistic jet and its nonrelativistic equivalents have similar ages (in dynamical time units, = R/a_a, where R is the initial radius of a cylindrical jet and a_a is the sound speed in the ambient medium). In addition to these comparisons, we have completed four new relativistic simulations to investigate the effect of varying thermal pressure on relativistic jets. The simulations generally confirm that faster (larger Lorentz factor) and colder jets are more stable, with smaller amplitude and longer wavelength internal variations. The apparent stability of these jets does not follow from linear normal mode analysis, which suggests that there are available growing Kelvin-Helmholtz modes. (Abridged.) 
Identifications are sought for 12 sub-mm sources detected by Eales et al (1998). Six are securely identified, two have probable identifications and four remain unidentified with I_AB > 25. Spectroscopic and estimated photometric redshifts indicate that four of the sources have z < 1, and four have 1 < z < 3, with the remaining four empty field sources probably lying at z > 3. The spectral energy distributions of the identifications are consistent with those of high extinction starbursts such as Arp 220. The far-IR luminosities of the sources at z > 0.5 are of order 3 x 10^12 h_50^-2 L_sun, i.e. slightly larger than that of Arp 220. Based on this small sample, the cumulative bolometric luminosity function shows strong evolution to z ~ 1, but weaker or possibly even negative evolution beyond. The redshift dependence of the far-IR luminosity density does not appear, at this early stage, to be inconsistent with that seen in the ultraviolet luminosity density. Assuming that the energy source in the far-IR is massive stars, the total luminous output from star-formation in the Universe is probably dominated by the far-IR emission. The detected systems have individual star-formation rates (exceeding 300 h_50^-2 M_O yr^-1) that are much higher than seen in the ultraviolet selected samples, and which are sufficient to form substantial stellar populations on dynamical timescales of 10^8 yr. The association with merger-like morphologies and the obvious presence of dust makes it attractive to identify these systems as forming the metal-rich spheroid population, in which case we would infer that much of this activity has occurred relatively recently, at z ~ 2. 
We investigate, through 2D MHD numerical simulations, the interaction of a uniform magnetic field oblique to a moving interstellar cloud. In particular we explore the transformation of cloud kinetic energy into magnetic energy as a result of field line stretching. Some previous simulations have emphasized the possible dynamical importance of a ``magnetic shield'' formed around clouds when the magnetic field is perpendicular to the cloud motion (Jones et al. 1996, Miniati et al. 1998). It was not clear, however, how dependent those findings were to the assumed field configuration and cloud properties. To expand our understanding of this effect, we examine several new cases by varing the magnetic field orientation angle with respect to the cloud motion (\theta), the cloud-background density contrast, and the cloud Mach number.   We show that in 2D and with \theta large enough, the magnetic field tension can become dominant in the dynamics of the motion of high density contrast, low Mach number clouds. In such cases a significant fraction of cloud kinetic energy can be transformed into magnetic energy with the magnetic pressure at the cloud nose exceeding the ram pressure of the impinging flow. We derive a characteristic timescale for this process of energy ``conversion''. We find also that unless the cloud motion is highly aligned to the magnetic field, reconnection through tearing mode instabilities in the cloud wake limit the formation of a strong flux rope feature following the cloud. Finally we attempt to interpret some observational properties of the magnetic field in view of our results. 
We define the flatness and quasi-flatness problems in cosmological models. We seek solutions to both problems in homogeneous and isotropic Brans-Dicke cosmologies with varying speed of light. We formulate this theory and find perturbative, non-perturbative, and asymptotic solutions using both numerical and analytical methods. For a particular range of variations of the speed of light the flatness problem can be solved. Under other conditions there exists a late-time attractor with a constant value of \Omega that is smaller than, but of order, unity. Thus these theories may solve the quasi-flatness problem, a considerably more challenging problem than the flatness problem. We also discuss the related \Lambda and quasi-\Lambda problem in these theories. We conclude with an appraisal of the difficulties these theories may face. 
We show that the galactic microquasar GRS 1915+105 exhibits quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) whose frequency varies continuously from 1-15 Hz, during spectrally hard dips when the source is in a flaring state. We report here analyses of simultaneous energy spectra and power density spectra at 4 s intervals. The energy spectrum is well fit at each time step by an optically thick accretion disk plus power law model, while the power density spectrum consists of a varying red noise component plus the variable frequency QPO. The features of both spectra are strongly correlated with one another. The 1-15 Hz QPOs appear when the power law component becomes hard and intense, and themselves have an energy spectrum consistent with the power law component (with root mean square amplitudes as high as 10%). The frequency of the oscillations, however, is most strikingly correlated with the parameters of the thermal disk component. The tightest correlation is between QPO frequency and the disk X-ray flux. This fact indicates that the properties of the QPO are not determined by solely a disk or solely a corona. 
Active Galactic Nuclei are considered as possible sites of cosmic ray acceleration and some of them have been observed as high energy gamma ray emitters (Blazars). There naturally comes an appealing idea that the acceleration of the highest energy cosmic rays in the AGNs has a signature in the form of gamma ray emission and high energy neutrino emission through the collisions of very high energy protons with soft photons. Moreover it is often said that electrons cannot reach enough energy through Fermi acceleration to account for the highest energy photons observed with ground Cerenkov telescopes. In this paper, we discussed these points and show that the fast variability of the flares recently observed rules out the assumption of a Fermi acceleration of protons. We show that Fermi acceleration of electrons is enough to account for the gamma spectra, their shape, cut-off and their variability. Moreover the spectral break is nicely explained by invoking an gamma-ray photosphere. Nevertheless we give estimates of the high energy cosmic ray generation in AGNs and of the resultant neutrino flux, that turns out to be very sensitive to the spectral index of the proton distribution. 
Measurements of the distances to SNe Ia have produced strong evidence that the expansion of the Universe is accelerating, implying the existence of a nearly uniform component of dark energy with negative pressure. We show that constraints to this mysterious component based upon large-scale structure nicely complement the SN Ia data, and that together they require Omega_X = (0.6,0.7) and w_X < -0.6 (95% cl), for the favored flat Universe. Other cosmological data support this conclusion. The simplest explanation, a cosmological constant, is consistent with this, while some of the other possibilities are not. 
The existence of cosmic ray particles up to the ultra-high energy limit (> 10^20 eV) is now beyond any doubt. The detection of cosmic particles with such energies imposes a challenge for the comprehension of their sources and nature. On one side, particles with such high energies are difficult to be produced by any astrophysical source. On the other side, the interactions of these particles with photons of the cosmic microwave background cause substantial losses of energy which constraint the maximum distances that the particles are able to travel from the sources to the detectors. Aiming to help to elucidate the problem of UHECR source identification, we have performed 3-D simulations of particle trajectories propagated through the stochastic intergalactic and an extended Galactic halo magnetic fields. Going further, we have also performed simulations of proton and Fe nuclei through the spiral Galactic magnetic field (GMF) and built full-sky maps of their arrival direction distribution in both the detector (after deflection in the GMF) and just outside the Galaxy. In this work we summarize the main results of these investigations. 
We present interferometric observations of N2H+(1--0) in the starless, dense core L1544 in Taurus. Red-shifted self-absorption, indicative of inward motions, is found toward the center of an elongated core. The data are fit by a non-spherical model consisting of two isothermal, rotating, centrally condensed layers. Through a hybrid global-individual fit to the spectra, we map the variation of infall speed at scales ~1400AU and find values ~0.08 km/s around the core center. The inward motions are small in comparison to thermal, rotational, and gravitational speeds but are large enough to suggest that L1544 is very close to forming a star. 
We report the X-ray observations of the Galactic X-ray transient source GRS 1915+105 with the PPCs of the Indian X-ray Astronomy Experiment(IXAE) onboard the Indian satellite IRS-P3 during 1997 June - August, which have revealed the presence of four types of intense X-ray bursts. All the observed bursts have a slow exponential rise, a sharp linear decay, and they can broadly be put in two classes: irregular and quasi-regular bursts in one class, and regular bursts in another class. The regular bursts are found to have two distinct time scales and they persist over extended durations. There is a strong correlation between the preceding quiescent time and the burst duration for the quasi-regular and irregular bursts. No such correlation is found for the regular bursts. The ratio of average flux during the burst time to the average flux during the quiescent phase is high and variable for the quasi- regular and irregular bursts while it is low and constant for the regular bursts. We suggest that the peculiar bursts that we have seen are charact- eristic of the change of state of the source. The source can switch back and forth between the low-hard state and the high-soft state near critical accretion rates in a very short time scale. A test of the model is presented using the publicly available 13-60 keV RXTE/PCA data for irregular and regular bursts concurrent with our observations. 
Gas that escapes from the Galactic disk, rises into the halo, cools and falls back, constitutes a "Galactic Fountain". Three-Dimensional simulations show that such a fountain model reproduces many of the features that have been observed in the Galaxy and other galaxies such as M31 and M33. Here, these results are reported. 
We present results of the investigations of the statistical properties of a joint density and velocity divergence probability distribution function (PDF) in the mildly non-linear regime. For that purpose we use both perturbation theory results, extended here for a top-hat filter, and numerical simulations.   In particular we derive the quantitative (complete as possible up to third order terms) and qualitative predictions for constrained averages and constrained dispersions -- which describe the nonlinearities and the stochasticity properties beyond the linear regime -- and compare them against numerical simulations. We find overall a good agreement for constrained averages; however, the agreement for constrained dispersions is only qualitative. Scaling relations for the Omega-dependence of these quantities are satisfactory reproduced.   Guided by our analytical and numerical results, we finally construct a robust phenomenological description of the joint PDF in a closed analytic form. The good agreement of our formula with results of N-body simulations for a number of cosmological parameters provides a sound validation of the presented approach.   Our results provide a basis for a potentially powerful tool with which it is possible to analyze galaxy survey data in order to test the gravitational instability paradigm beyond the linear regime and put useful constraints on cosmological parameters. In particular we show how the nonlinearity in the density--velocity relation can be used to break the so-called Omega-bias degeneracy in cosmic density-velocity comparisons. 
We present the basics of microlensing and give an overview of the results obtained so far. We also describe a scenario in which dark clusters of MACHOs (Massive Astrophysical Compact Halo Objects) and cold molecular clouds (mainly of $H_2$) naturally form in the halo at galactocentric distances larger than 10-20 kpc. Moreover, we discuss various experimental tests of this picture in particular a $\gamma$-ray emission from the clouds due to the scattering of high-energy cosmic-ray protons. Our estimate for the $\gamma$-ray flux turns out to be in remarkably good agreement with the recent discovery by Dixon et al. of a possible $\gamma$-ray emission from the halo using EGRET data. 
We present a new analysis of the far-IR emission at high Galactic latitude based on COBE and HI data. A decomposition of the Far-IR emission over the HI, H^+ and H_2 Galactic gas components and the Cosmic Far InfraRed Background (CFIRB) is described.   For the first time the far-IR emission of dust associated with the Warm Ionised Medium (WIM) is evidenced. This component determined on about 25% of the sky is detected at a 10 sigma level in the [200, 350]micron band. The best representation of the WIM dust spectrum is obtained for a temperature of 29.1 K and an emissivity law $tau/N_H+=3.8 \pm 0.8 10^{-26} (\lambda/250\mic)^{-1} cm^2$. With a spectral index equal to 2, the emissivity law becomes $\tau/N_H^+= 1.0 \pm 0.2 10^{-25} (\lambda/250\mic)^{-2} cm^2$, with a temperature of 20 K, which is significantly higher than the temperature of dust associated with HI gas. The variation in the dust spectrum from the HI to the WIM component can be explained by only changing the upper cutoff of the Big Grain size distribution from 0.1 micron to 30 nm. The detection of IR emission of dust in the WIM significantly decreases the intensity of the CFIRB, especially around 200 micron which corresponds to the peak of energy. 
We present new narrow-band filter imagery in H-alpha and [N II] 6584 along with UV and optical spectrophotometry measurements from 1200 to 9600 Angstroms of NGC 7293, the Helix Nebula, a nearby, photogenic planetary nebula of large diameter and low surface brightness. Detailed models of the observable ionized nebula support the recent claim that the Helix is actually a flattened disk whose thickness is roughly one-third its diameter with an inner region containing hot, highly ionized gas which is generally invisible in narrow-band images. The outer visible ring structure is of lower ionization and temperature and is brighter because of a thickening in the disk. We also confirm a central star effective temperature and luminosity of 120,000K and 100L_sun, and we estimate a lower limit to the nebular mass to be 0.30M_sun. Abundance measurements indicate the following values: He/H=0.12 (+/-0.017), O/H=4.60x10^-4 (+/-0.18), C/O=0.87 (+/-0.12), N/O=0.54 (+/-0.14), Ne/O=0.33 (+/-0.04), S/O=3.22x10^-3 (+/-0.26), and Ar/O=6.74x10^-3 (+/-0.76). Our carbon abundance measurements represent the first of their kind for the Helix Nebula. The S/O ratio which we derive is anomalously low; such values are found in only a few other planetary nebulae. The central star properties, the super-solar values of He/H and N/O, and a solar level of C/O are consistent with a 6.5M_sun progenitor which underwent three phases of dredge-up and hot bottom burning before forming the planetary nebula. 
Models for the evolution of the integrated energy spectrum of primary cosmic ray electrons in clusters of galaxies have been calculated, including the effects of losses due to inverse Compton (IC), synchrotron, and bremsstrahlung emission, and Coulomb losses to the intracluster medium (ICM). The combined time scale for these losses reaches a maximum of ~3e9 yr for electrons with a Lorentz factor ~300. Only clusters in which there has been a substantial injection of relativistic electrons since z <~ 1 will have any significant population of primary cosmic ray electrons at present. In typical models, there is a broad peak in the electron energy distribution extending to gamma~300, and a steep drop in the electron population beyond this. In clusters with current particle injection, there is a power-law tail of higher energy electrons with an abundance determined by the current rate of injection. A significant population of electrons with gamma~300, associated with the peak in the particle loss time, is a generic feature of the models. The IC and synchrotron emission from these models was calculated. In the models, EUV and soft X-ray emission are nearly ubiquitous. This emission is produced by electrons with gamma~300. The spectra are predicted to drop rapidly in going from the EUV to the X-ray band. The IC emission also extends down the UV, optical, and IR bands with a fairly flat spectrum. Hard X-ray (HXR) and diffuse radio emission due to high energy electrons (gamma~10e4) is present only in clusters which have current particle acceleration. Assuming that the electrons are accelerated in ICM shocks, one would only expect diffuse HXR/radio emission in clusters which are currently undergoing a large merger. 
Results are presented from the analysis of ROSAT HRI and PSPC observations of the CNOC subsample of the EMSS high redshift galaxy clusters. X-ray surface brightness profiles of 14 clusters with $0.17 < z < 0.55$ are constructed and fit to isothermal $\beta$ models. Where possible, we use both the HRI and PSPC data to constrain the fit. Under the assumptions of isothermality, hydrostatic equilibrium, and spherical symmetry, we derive total X-ray masses within a range of radii from 141 to $526 h^{-1}_{100}$ kpc. These masses are compared with both the dynamical masses obtained from galaxy velocities and the projected masses from published gravitational lensing studies. We find no systematic bias between X-ray and dynamical methods across the sample, with an average $M_{Dyn}/M_X=1.04\pm0.07$, although individual clusters exhibit mass discrepancies up to a factor of 2. We estimate that the systematic effects due to cooling flows, non-equilibrium systems and temperature gradients affect the average mass ratio by no more than $15-20%$. Weak gravitational lensing masses appear to be systematically higher than X-ray results by factors of $\sim50%$, while strong lensing estimates show larger discrepancies (factors of $\sim2.5$). However, these comparisons are complicated by the need to extrapolate the X-ray data to larger or smaller radii. X-ray derived cluster gas masses are calculated, from which we obtain a cluster baryon fraction of $\sim5%h^{-3/2}_{100}$, yielding $\Omega_0 \sim0.3h^{-1/2}_{100}$. 
The Pixon method is a high-performance, nonlinear image reconstruction method that provides statistically unbiased photometry and robust rejection of spurious sources. Relative to other methods, it can increase linear spatial resolution by a factor of a few and sensitivity by an order of magnitude or more. All of these benefits are achieved in computation times that can be orders of magnitude faster than its best competitors. 
We have developed a new parallel tree method which will be called the forest method hereafter. This new method uses the sectional Voronoi tessellation (SVT) for the domain decomposition. The SVT decomposes a whole space into polyhedra and allows their flat borders to move by assigning different weights. The forest method determines these weights based on the load balancing among processors by means of the over-load diffusion (OLD). Moreover, since all the borders are flat, before receiving the data from other processors, each processor can collect enough data to calculate the gravity force with precision. Both the SVT and the OLD are coded in a highly vectorizable manner to accommodate on vector parallel processors. The parallel code based on the forest method with the Message Passing Interface is run on various platforms so that a wide portability is guaranteed. Extensive calculations with 15 processors of Fujitsu VPP300/16R indicate that the code can calculate the gravity force exerted on 10^5 particles in each second for some ideal dark halo. This code is found to enable an N-body simulation with 10^7 or more particles for a wide dynamic range and is therefore a very powerful tool for the study of galaxy formation and large-scale structure in the universe. 
The broad Iron line in MCG-6-30-15 is fitted to the Comptonization model where line broadening occurs due to Compton down-scattering in a highly ionized optically thick cloud. These results are compared to the disk line model where the broadening is due to Gravitational/Doppler effects in the vicinity of a black hole. We find that both models fit the data well and it is not possible to differentiate between them by fitting only the ASCA data. The best fit temperature and optical depth of the cloud are found to be kT = 0.54 keV and $\tau = 4.0$ from the Comptonization model. This model further suggests that while the temperature can be assumed to be constant, the optical depth varies during the observation period. We emphasis an earlier conclusion that simultaneous broad band data ($3 - 50$ keV) can rule out (or confirm) the Comptonization model. 
We deduce the equations that describe how polarized radiation is Comptonized by a hot electron gas. Low frequencies are considered, and the equations are expanded to second order in electron velocities. Induced scattering terms are included and a Maxwellian velocity distribution for the electrons is assumed. The special case of an axisymmetric radiation field is also considered, and the corresponding radiative transfer equations are found. Our results correct errors and misprints in previosly published transfer equations. The extension to a moving electron gas is made, and the radiative transfer equations are deduced to second order in gas velocity. We use the equations to study polarization in the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect. 
We present preliminary results from our on-going survey of Galactic globular clusters relative ages. The investigation is based on V,I images obtained at the ESO and La Palma telescopes, which make up the largest homogenous photometric catalog to date. A second, independent sample of globulars observed in the B, V bands provides an independent check of the results based on the groundbased data.   Age-dependent morphological parameters are measured on the CMDs and are compared with two sets of independent models. We find that the so-called ``vertical'' and ``horizontal'' methods give compatible results when the groundbased dataset is used, and that in both cases the observed trends are well reproduced by the isochrones. The interpretation of the HST data trends are more controversial, due to both a stronger dependence on metallicity, and to the discrepancies in the theoretical loci.   Our data clearly show that (a) no age dispersion can be revealed for the bulk of the GGCs at the ~1 Gyr level; (b) no age-metallicity relation is found, although the age dispersion is somwhat larger for intermediate and higher metallicity clusters; and (c) there is no clear trend with the galactocentric distance, out to the present limits of our survey (R(GC) < 22 Kpc). 
The nucleus of the box-shaped galaxy NGC4013 has been observed with the IRAM interferometer in the J=1-0 and J=2-1 lines of 12CO. Our maps show the existence of a fast--rotating(130 km/s) molecular gas disk of radius r=110pc. Several arguments support the existence of a bar potential in NGC4013. The figure-of-eight pattern of the major axis p-v plot, the ring-like distribution of gas, and the existence of gas emission at non-circular velocities are best accounted by a bar. We have also detected gas at high z distances from the plane (z=200-300pc). The latter component is related to a system of 4 Halpha filaments of diffuse ionized gas that come out from the nucleus. The galactic fountain model seems the best to account for the Halpha and CO filaments. Although the peanut distortion can be spontaneously formed by a stellar bar in the disk, gas at high z might have been ejected after a nuclear starburst. The Halpha filaments start in the plane of the disk at r=200pc, and reach several Kpc height at r=600pc, coinciding with the maximum peanut distortion. Although a link between the bar and the box-shaped bulge in NGC4013 is suggested we find noticeable differences between the results of previous numerical simulations and the present observations. The discrepancy concerns the parameters of the bar generating the peanut. We see in NGC4013 the existence of a strong ILR region. The inclusion of a dissipative component, which remains to be thoroughly studied, may change the evolution of the stellar peanut: although in simulations the peanut appears initially near a marginal ILR, the inflow of gas driven by the bar, can make two ILRs appear. 
This paper concentrates on four key tools for performing star cluster simulations developed during the last decade which are sufficient to handle all the relevant dynamical aspects. First we discuss briefly the Hermite integration scheme which is simple to use and highly efficient for advancing the single particles. The main numerical challenge is in dealing with weakly and strongly perturbed hard binaries. A new treatment of the classical Kustaanheimo-Stiefel two-body regularization has proved to be more accurate for studying binaries than previous algorithms based on divided differences or Hermite integration. This formulation employs a Taylor series expansion combined with the Stumpff functions, still with one force evaluation per step, which gives exact solutions for unperturbed motion and is at least comparable to the polynomial methods for large perturbations. Strong interactions between hard binaries and single stars or other binaries are studied by chain regularization which ensures a non-biased outcome for chaotic motions. A new semi-analytical stability criterion for hierarchical systems has been adopted and the long-term effects on the inner binary are now treated by averaging techniques for cases of interest. These modifications describe consistent changes of the orbital variables due to large Kozai cycles and tidal dissipation. The range of astrophysical processes which can now be considered by N-body simulations include tidal capture, circularization, mass transfer by Roche-lobe overflow as well as physical collisions, where the masses and radii of individual stars are modelled by synthetic stellar evolution. 
We have obtained high resolution UV images with the HST+WFPC2 of the central region of the dwarf elliptical galaxy NGC 205. Our images reveal that many of the hot UV stars previously detected and studied from the ground are actually multiple systems, open clusters and star associations. We have performed photometry of two such clusters and we find our data are consistent with stellar ages of 50 and 100 Myr, respectively. From the number of massive stars in NGC 205 we estimate that the star formation episode in this galaxy has turned ~1,000 Msolar of gas into stars over the last 100 Myr. 
Future astrometric satellites, such as SIM (NASA's Space Interferometric Mission) and GAIA (ESA's Global Astrometric Interferometer for Astrophysics), hold the promise of mapping out the detailed phase space structure of the Galactic halo by providing unprecedented annual proper motion and parallax of $1-10\mu$as astrometric accuracy. Here we show that proper motions of hundred or so giant branch stars in a tidal debris torn from a small satellite (a $10^{5-7}L_\odot$ Galactic dwarf galaxy or globular cluster) in the halo is sensitive to the current Galactic potential and its past evolution. We follow the evolution of a cold (velocity dispersion of 10 km/s) stream on a nearby (between 8-50 kpc) polar orbit in a variety of histories of the potential of the Galaxy, and observe the bright ($V<18$mag) members of the debris tail with GAIA accuracy. We simulate effects due to the growing or flipping of the Galactic disk over the past 4 Gyrs or the perturbation from a massive accreted lump such as the progenitor of the Magellanic Clouds. We study various factors influencing our ability to identify streams, including contamination from field stars, accuracy of radial velocity and distance data and evolution and non-axial symmetry of the potential. Our simulations suggest that nearby, cold streams could be detected with GAIA if these cousins of the Sagittarius stream exist. Results of Johnston, Zhao, Spergel & Hernquist (1999) and Helmi, Zhao & de Zeeuw (1999) for static Galactic potentials are likely to be largely generalizable to moderately time-evolving potentials. SIM and GAIA measurements of debris stars might be used to probe both Galactic structure and Galactic history. 
We calculate the light curve and spectra near the peak and the self absorption break, for an adiabatic blast wave described by the Blandford-McKee solution, considering the emission from the whole region behind the shock front. The expected light curve and spectra are flat near the peak. This rules out the interpretation of the sharp peak observed in the optical afterglow of GRB970508 as the expected peak of the light curve. The observed image of an afterglow is calculated for a broad range of frequencies. We show that for frequencies below the self absorption frequency the image is rather homogeneous, as opposed to the bright ring at the outer edge and dim center, which appear at higher frequencies. We fit the observed spectra of GRB970508 to the detailed theory and obtain estimates of the physical parameters of this burst. 
This article is a summary of a recently held conference on the light elements, Li, Be and B, and their relationship to cosmic-ray origin and gamma-ray astronomy. The proceedings will be published by the PASP. 
One of the largest sources of uncertainty in the computation of globular cluster isochrones and hence in the age determination of globular clusters is the lack of a rigorous description of convection. Therefore, we calibrated the superadiabatic temperature gradient in the envelope of metal-poor low-mass stars according to the results from a new grid of 2D hydrodynamical models, which cover the Main Sequence and the lower Red Giant Branch of globular cluster stars. In practice, we still use for computing the evolutionary stellar models the traditional mixing length formalism, but we fix the mixing length parameter in order to reproduce the run of the entropy of the deeper adiabatic region of the stellar envelopes with effective temperature and gravity as obtained from the hydro-models. The detailed behaviour of the calibrated mixing length depends in a non-trivial way on the effective temperature, gravity and metallicity of the star. Nevertheless, the resulting isochrones for the relevant age range of galactic globular clusters have only small differences with respect to isochrones computed adopting a constant solar calibrated value of the mixing length. Accordingly, the age of globular clusters is reduced by 0.2 Gyr at most. 
We present photometry and spectroscopy of the soft x-ray transient Aql X-1. Optical photometry during an active state shows a strong (0.6 mag peak-to-peak) modulation at a period of 19 hours. Infrared (K'-band) photometry during a quiescent state limits any ellipsoidal variations to <0.07 mag (peak-to-peak), which implies an inclination i<31 (90% limit). Spectroscopy in a quiescent state shows at most very small radial velocity variations, which implies a very low inclination of i<12 (90% limit). The low inclination is rather unexpected given the large photometric modulation seen in the active state. The upper limit to the equivalent width of the anomalous Li 6707A line is <0.3A, which is similar to the measured strength of this line in several other x-ray transients. 
I show that three independent methods utilizing clusters of galaxies - cluster dynamics and mass-to-light ratio, baryon fraction in clusters, and cluster evolution - all indicate the same robust result: the mass-density of the universe is low, Omega ~ 0.2, and the mass approximately traces light on large scales. 
We explore the effects of dust in cosmologically distributed intervening galaxies on the high redshift universe using a generalised model where dust content evolves with cosmic time. The absorbing galaxies are modelled as exponential disks which form coevally, maintain a constant space density and evolve in dust content at a rate that is uniform throughout. We find that the inclusion of moderate to moderately weak amounts of evolution consistent with other studies can reduce the mean observed $B$-band optical depth to redshifts $z \simgt 1$ by at least 60% relative to non-evolving models. Our predictions imply that intervening galactic dust is unlikely to bias the optical counts of quasars at high redshifts and their evolution in space density derived therefrom. 
We investigate equilibrium accretion flows dominated by $e^+ e^-$ pairs. We consider one- and two-temperature accretion disk coronae above a thin disk, as well as hot optically thin two-temperature accretion flows without an underlying thin disk; we model the latter in the framework of advection-dominated accretion flows (ADAFs). In all three cases we include equipartition magnetic fields. We confirm the previous result that the equilibrium density of pairs in two-temperature ADAFs is negligible; and show that the inclusion of magnetic fields and the corresponding synchrotron cooling reduces the pair density even further. Similarly, we find that pairs are unimportant in two-temperature coronae. Even when the corona has significantly enhanced heating by direct transfer of viscous dissipation in the thin disk to the corona, the inefficient Coulomb coupling between protons and electrons acts as a bottleneck and prevents the high compactness required for pair-dominated solutions. Only in the case of a one-temperature corona model do we find pair-dominated thermal equilibria. These pair-dominated solutions occur over a limited range of optical depth and temperature. 
We develop the formalism to investigate the relation between the evolution of the large-scale (quasi) linear structure and that of the small-scale nonlinear structure in Newtonian cosmology within the Lagrangian framework. In doing so, we first derive the standard Friedmann expansion law using the averaging procedure over the present horizon scale. Then the large-scale (quasi) linear flow is defined by averaging the full trajectory field over a large-scale domain, but much smaller than the horizon scale. The rest of the full trajectory field is supposed to describe small-scale nonlinear dynamics. We obtain the evolution equations for the large-scale and small-scale parts of the trajectory field. These are coupled to each other in most general situations.   It is shown that if the shear deformation of fluid elements is ignored in the averaged large-scale dynamics, the small-scale dynamics is described by Newtonian dynamics in an effective Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW) background with a local scale factor. The local scale factor is defined by the sum of the global scale factor and the expansion deformation of the averaged large-scale displacement field. This means that the evolution of small-scale fluctuations is influenced by the surrounding large-scale structure through the modification of FRW scale factor. The effect might play an important role in the structure formation scenario. Furthermore, it is argued that the so-called {\it optimized} or {\it truncated} Lagrangian perturbation theory is a good approximation in investigating the large-scale structure formation up to the quasi nonlinear regime, even when the small-scale fluctuations are in the non-linear regime. 
We have calculated the mass accumulation efficiency during helium shell flashes to examine whether or not a carbon-oxygen white dwarf (C+O WD) grows up to the Chandrasekhar mass limit to ignite a Type Ia supernova explosion. It has been frequently argued that luminous super-soft X-ray sources and symbiotic stars are progenitors of SNe Ia. In such systems, a C+O WD accretes hydrogen-rich matter from a companion and burns hydrogen steadily on its surface. The WD develops a helium layer underneath the hydrogen-rich envelope and undergoes periodic helium shell flashes. Using OPAL opacity, we have reanalyzed a full cycle of helium shell flashes on a 1.3 M_\odot C+O WD and confirmed that the helium envelope of the WD expands to blow a strong wind. A part of the accumulated matter is lost by the wind.   The mass accumulation efficiency is estimated as \eta_{He} = -0.175 (\log \dot M + 5.35)^2 + 1.05, for -7.3 < \log \dot M < -5.9, where the mass accretion rate \dot M is in units of M_\odot yr^{-1}. In relatively high mass accretion rates as expected in recent SN Ia progenitor models, the mass accumulation efficiency is large enough for C+O WDs to grow to the Chandrasekhar mass, i.e., \eta_{He} = 0.9 for \log \dot M = -6.3, and \eta_{He}=0.57 for \log \dot M = -7.0. The wind velocity (\sim 1000 km/s) is much faster than the orbital velocity of the binary (< 300 km/s) and therefore, the wind cannot be accelerated further by the companion's motion. 
The axisymmetric 3-D MHD outflow of a cold plasma from a magnetized and rotating astrophysical object is numerically simulated with the purpose of investigating the outflow's magnetocentrifugal acceleration and eventual collimation. Gravity and thermal pressure are neglected while a split-monopole is used to describe the initial magnetic field configuration. It is found that the stationary final state depends critically on a single parameter alpha expressing the ratio of the corotating speed at the Alfven distance to the initial flow speed along the initial monopole-like magnetic fieldlines. Several angular velocity laws have been used for relativistic and nonrelativistic outflows. The acceleration of the flow is most effective at the equatorial plane and the terminal flow speed depends linearly on alpha. Significant flow collimation is found in nonrelativistic efficient magnetic rotators corresponding to relatively larger than 1 values of alpha while very weak collimation occurs in inefficient magnetic rotators with values of alpha smaller than about 1. Part of the flow around the rotation and magnetic axis is cylindrically collimated while the remaining part obtains radial asymptotics. The transverse radius of the jet is inversely proportional to alpha while the density in the jet grows linearly with alpha. For alpha greater than about 5 the magnitude of the flow in the jet remains below the fast MHD wave speed everywhere. In relativistic outflows, no collimation is found in the supersonic region for parameters typical for radio pulsars. All above results verify the main conclusions of general theoretical studies on the magnetic acceleration and collimation of outflows from magnetic rotators and extend previous numerical simulations to large stellar distances. 
A sort of gravitational waveguide effect in cosmology could explain, in principle, the huge luminosities coming from quasars using the cosmological large scale structures as selfoc--type or planar waveguides. Furthermore, other anomalous phenomena connected with quasars, as the existence of "brothers" or "twins" objects having different brilliancy but similar spectra and redshifts, placed on the sky with large angular distance, could be explained by this effect. We describe the gravitational waveguide theory and then we discuss possible realizations in cosmology. 
It is well known that the accretion disk around a magnetized compact star can penetrate inside the magnetospheric boundary, so the magnetospheric radius $\ro$ does not represent the true inner edge $\rin$ of the disk; but controversies exist in the literature concerning the relation between $\ro$ and $\rin$. In the model of Ghosh & Lamb, the width of the boundary layer is given by $\delta=\ro-\rin\ll\ro$, or $\rin\simeq\ro$, while Li & Wickramasinghe recently argued that $\rin$ could be significantly smaller than $\ro$ in the case of a slow rotator. Here we show that if the star is able to absorb the angular momentum of disk plasma at $\ro$, appropriate for binary X-ray pulsars, the inner disk radius can be constrained by $0.8\lsim \rin/\ro\lsim 1$, and the star reaches spin equilibrium with a relatively large value of the fastness parameter ($\sim 0.7-0.95$). For accreting neutron stars in low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs), $\ro$ is generally close to the stellar radius $\rs$ so that the toroidal field cannot transfer the spin-up torque efficiently to the star. In this case the critical fastness parameter becomes smaller, but $\rin$ is still near $\ro$. 
We investigate the spin evolution of the binary X-ray pulsar 2S 0114+650, which possesses the slowest known spin period of $\sim 2.7$ hours. We argue that, to interpret such long spin period, the magnetic field strength of this pulsar must be initially $\gsim 10^{14}$ G, that is, it was born as a magnetar. Since the pulsar currently has a normal magnetic field $\sim 10^{12}$ G, our results present support for magnetic field decay predicted by the magnetar model. 
We develop a model for the outer gravitationally unstable regions of accretion disks around massive black holes, for primeval or solar abundances. First we study star formation and evolution in a purely gaseous marginally unstable disk, and we show that unstable fragments should collapse rapidly and give rise to protostars which accrete at a high rate, acquire a mass of a few tens of Mo, and explode as supernovae, producing strong enriched outflows. Second we assume that the whole mass transport is ensured by the supernovae which induce a transfer of angular momentum. For a star formation rate proportional to the growth rate of gravitational instability, we find solutions for the gas and stellar densities where the gas is close to gravitational instability, between 0.1 and 10 pc M(BH) =10**6 Mo, and between 1 and 100 pc for M(BH)=10**8 Mo or larger, whatever the abundances, but for relatively low accretion rates. For larger accretion rates the number of stars becomes so large that they inhibit further star formation, and/or the rate of SN is so high that they distroy the homogeneity and the marginal stability of the disk. We postpone the study of this case. Besides the fact that the mechanism solves the problem of mass transport in a region of where global instabilities do not work, there are several consequences of this model: it can explain the high velocity metal enriched outflows implied by Broad Absorption Lines in quasars, it can account for a pregalactic enrichment, if black holes formed early, finally it can trigger starbursts in the central regions of galaxies. A check of the model would be to detect a supernova exploding within a few parsecs from the center of an AGN, an observation which can be performed in the near future. 
The HEGRA system of 4 Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes (IACTs) has been used since March 1997 for a comprehensive study of the gamma-ray emission from the BL Lac object Mkn 501 in the energy range above 500 GeV. Taking advantage of the unique capabilities of the IACT system, i.e. an unprecedented flux sensitivity in the TeV energy range and an unique energy resolution of better than 20% for individual TeV photons, detailed information about the temporal and spectral characteristics of the source during its spectacular bright phase in 1997 is reported. Further more, using the large HEGRA and Rossi X-Ray Timing Explorer All Sky Monitor (RXTE ASM) data bases, the correlation of the X-ray and the TeV activity of the source is discussed. Finally, an outlook over present and future activities is given. 
We compute the acceleration on the Local Group using 11206 IRAS galaxies from the recently completed all-sky PSCz redshift survey. Measuring the acceleration vector in redshift space generates systematic uncertainties due to the redshift space distortions in the density field. We therefore assign galaxies to their real space positions by adopting a non-parametric model for the velocity field that solely relies on the linear gravitational instability and linear biasing hypotheses. Remaining systematic contributions to the measured acceleration vector are corrected for by using PSCz mock catalogues from N-body experiments. The resulting acceleration vector points approx. 15 degrees away from the CMB dipole apex, with a remarkable alignment between small and large scale contributions. A considerable fraction of the measured acceleration is generated within 40 h-1 Mpc with a non-negligible contribution from scales between 90 and 140 h-1 Mpc after which the acceleration amplitude seems to have converged. The local group acceleration from PSCz appears to be consistent with the one determined from the IRAS 1.2 Jy galaxy catalogue once the different contributions from shot noise have been taken into account. The results are consistent with the gravitational instability hypothesis and do not indicate any strong deviations from the linear biasing relation on large scales. A maximum-likelihood analysis of the comulative PSCz dipole is performed within a radius of 150 h-1 Mpc in which we account for nonlinear effects, shot noise and finite sample size. We obtain \beta = 0.70 (+ 0.35)(-0.2) at 1 \sigma confidence level. 
The International Gamma-Ray Astrophysics Laboratory (INTEGRAL) is dedicated to the fine spectroscopy (Delta-E: 2 keV FWHM @ 1.3 MeV) and fine imaging (angular resolution: 12 arcmin FWHM) of celestial gamma-ray sources in the energy range 15 keV to 10 MeV with concurrent source monitoring in the X-ray (3 - 35 keV) and optical (V, 550 nm) range. The mission is conceived as an observatory led by ESA with contributions from Russia and NASA. The INTEGRAL observatory will provide to the science community at large an unprecedented combination of imaging and spectroscopy over a wide range of energies. Most of the observing time will be open to the scientific community. This paper summarises the key scientific goals of the mission, the current development status of the payload and spacecraft and it will give an overview of the science ground segment including data centre, science operations and the key elements of the observing programme 
The Core Programme of the INTEGRAL mission is defined as the portion of the scientific programme covering the guaranteed time observations for the INTEGRAL Science Working Team. This paper describes the current status of the Core Programme preparations and summarizes the key elements of the observing programme. 
An improved forced-precession model of Comet 46P/Wirtanen is presented. The nongravitational motion of the comet has been investigated based on the forced precession model of the rotating cometary nucleus. The least squares method applied to observational equations allows us to determine six basic nongravitational parameters: A, eta, I, phi, f_p, and s together with six orbital elements. The solutions were obtained with additional assumptions: 1. The cometary activity with respect to the perihelion is asymmetric and, 2a. The time shift parameter which describes the displacement of maximum activity with respect to the perihelion could change its value during the investigated apparitions or 2b. The real activity of the comet changed during the time interval considered. All eight recorded apparitions of the comet were linked using all astrometric observations covering the period 1948-1997 with a mean RMS residual of 1.6". According to the best solution, the nucleus of Comet Wirtanen is oblate along the spin-axis with a ratio of equatorial to polar radius of about R_a/R_b=1.1. This precession model yields a value of 4.9 hrs/km for the ratio of P_rot/R_a. Assuming that the nucleus radius of 46P/Wirtanen most likely is in the range of 0.5 - 2.0 km we obtain a range 2.5 - 10.0 hours for the rotational period. 
It is know that most of the clouds producing associated absorption in the spectra of AGNs and quasars do not completely cover the background source (continuum + broad emission line region, BLR). We note that the covering factor derived for the absorption is the fraction of photons occulted by the absorbing clouds, and is not necessarily the same as the fractional area covered. We show that the variability in absorption lines can be produced by the changes in the covering factor caused by the variation in the continuum and the finite light travel time across the BLR. We discuss how such a variability can be distinguished from the variability caused by other effects and how one can use the variability in the covering factor to probe the BLR. 
We used archival ROSAT observations to investigate the X-ray surface brightness profiles of a sample of 26 clusters in the redshift range (0.04-0.06). For 15 of these clusters accurate temperature (kT>3.5 keV) were available from the literature. The scaled emission measure profiles look remarkably similar above ~0.2 times the virial radius r_V. On the other hand a large scatter is observed in the cluster core properties. We fitted a \betamodel (with and without excising the central part) to all the ROSAT profile to quantify the structural variations in the cluster population, unraveling a robust quadratic correlation between the core radius r_c and the slope parameter beta. We quantified the shape of each gas density profile by the variation with radius of the logarithmic slope, \alpha_n. The bi-weight dispersion of \alpha_n among the clusters is less than 20% for any given scaled radii above x=0.2. There is a clear minimum spread at x=0.3, which is related to the existence of a correlation between r_c and \beta. These ensemble properties are insensitive to the exact treatment of a possible central excess when fitting the profiles. On the other hand the scatter is decreased when the radii are scaled to r_V.   The regularity we found in the gas profiles at x>0.2 supports the existence of an universal underlying dark matter profile. It suggests that non gravitational heating is negligible for clusters with temperature above ~3.5keV. The very large scatter observed in the core properties favor scenario where Cooling Flows are periodically erased by merger events. Our results are consistent with the classical scaling M-T relation. Accordingly the spread in the reduced mass profiles derived from the hydrostatic isothermal betamodel is small. 
The BL Lac object Mkn 501 has shown very high emission in TeV gamma-rays from March to October, 1997. During this period the source was continuously monitored with the HEGRA stereoscopic system of 4 imaging air Cherenkov telescopes for a total exposure time of 110 hours. The unprecedented statistics of about 38,000 TeV photons, combined with the good energy resolution of ~20 % over the entire energy range and with detailed simulations of the detector response, allowed a determination of the average energy spectrum from 500 GeV to 24 TeV. Although the gamma-ray flux varied strongly with time, the daily energy spectra remained rather constant in their shape. Therefore it is justified to derive a time averaged spectrum and thus to extend, for the first time, the spectral measurement well beyond 10 TeV. This TeV spectrum of Mkn 501 shows a gradual steepening which could be caused by a number of physical processes, such as a limited energy range of the radiating particles, intrinsic gamma-ray absorption inside the source, the Klein-Nishina effect (in the case of an inverse Compton origin of the radiation) and finally, an absorption of the TeV gamma-rays propagating in the intergalactic medium. 
The Crab Nebula has been observed by the HEGRA stereoscopic system of 4 imaging air Cherenkov telescopes (IACTs) for about 100 hours from 1997 September to 1998 March. The recent detailed studies on the system performance give an energy threshold and an energy resolution for gamma-rays of 500 GeV and \~20 %, respectively. The Crab spectrum was measured with the IACTs system in a very broad energy range from 500 GeV to 25 TeV, using the observations at zenith angles up to 50 degree. The pure power-law spectrum in TeV gamma-rays constrains the physics parameters of the nebula environment as well as the models of photon emission. 
We assemble and observe a sample of poor galaxy systems that is suitable for testing N-body simulations of hierarchical clustering (Navarro, Frenk, & White 1997; NFW) and other dynamical halo models (e.g., Hernquist 1990). We (1) determine the parameters of the density profile rho(r) and the velocity dispersion profile sigma(R), (2) separate emission-line galaxies from absorption-line galaxies, examining the model parameters and as a function of spectroscopic type, and (3) for the best-behaved subsample, constrain the velocity anisotropy parameter, beta, which determines the shapes of the galaxy orbits.   The NFW universal profile and the Hernquist (1990) model both provide good descriptions of the spatial data. In most cases an isothermal sphere is ruled out. Systems with declining sigma(R) are well-matched by theoretical profiles in which the star-forming galaxies have predominantly radial orbits (beta > 0); many of these galaxies are probably falling in for the first time. There is significant evidence for spatial segregation of the spectroscopic classes regardless of sigma(R). 
We study the equilibrium of pressure truncated, filamentary molecular clouds that are threaded by rather general helical magnetic fields. We first derive a new virial equation appropriate for magnetized filamentary clouds, which includes the effects of non-thermal motions and the turbulent pressure of the surrounding ISM. When compared with the data, we find that many filamentary clouds have a mass per unit length that is significantly reduced by the effects of external pressure, and that toroidal fields play a significant role in squeezing such clouds.   We also develop exact numerical MHD models of filamentary molecular clouds with more general helical field configurations than have previously been considered. We also examine the effects of the equation of state by comparing ``isothermal'' filaments, with constant total (thermal plus turbulent) velocity dispersion, with equilibria constructed using a logatropic equation of state.   We perform a Monte Carlo exploration of our parameter space to determine which choices of parameters result in models that agree with the available observational constraints. We find that both equations of state result in equilibria that agree with the observational results. Moreover, we find that models with helical fields have more realistic density profiles than either unmagnetized models or those with purely poloidal fields; we find that most isothermal models have density distributions that fall off as r^{-1.8} to r^{-2}, while logatropes have density profiles that range from r^{-1} to r^{-1.8}. We find that purely poloidal fields produce filaments with steep density gradients that not allowed by the observations. 
A large number of cosmological studies now suggest that roughly two-thirds of the critical energy density of the Universe exists in a component with negative pressure. If the equation of state of such an energy component varies with time, it should in principle be possible to identify such a variation using cosmological probes over a wide range in redshift. Proper detection of any time variation, however, requires cosmological probes beyond the currently studied range in redshift of $\sim$ 0.1 to 1. We extend our analysis to gravitational lensing statistics at high redshift and suggest that a reliable sample of lensed sources, out to a redshift of $\sim$ 5, can be used to constrain the variation of the equation of state, provided that both the redshift distribution of lensed sources and the selection function involved with the lensed source discovery process are known. An exciting opportunity to catalog an adequate sample of lensed sources (quasars) to probe quintessence is now available with the ongoing Sloan Digital Sky Survey. Writing $w(z)\approx w_0 + z (dw/dz)_0$, we study the expected accuracy to which the equation of state today $w_0$ and its rate of change $(dw/dz)_0$ can simultaneously be constrained. Such a determination can rule out some missing-energy candidates, such as classes of quintessence models or a cosmological constant. 
An unsolved problem in turbulent dynamo theory is the ``back reaction'' problem: to what degree does the mean magnetic field suppress the turbulent dynamo coefficients which are needed to drive its growth? The answer will ultimately derive from a combination of numerical and analytical studies. Here we show that analytic approaches to the dynamo and back reaction problems require one to separate turbulent quantities into two components: those influenced by the mean field (which are therefore anisotropic) and those independent of the mean field (and are therefore isotropic), no matter how weak the mean field is. Upon revising the standard formalism to meet this requirement, we find that: (1) The two types of components often appear in the same equation, so that standard treatments, which do not distinguish between them, are ambiguous. (2) The usual first-order smoothing approximation that is necessary to make progress in the standard treatment is unnecessary when the distinction is made. (3) In contrast to previous suggestions, the correction to the dynamo $\a$ coefficient found by Pouquet et al (1976) is actually independent of the mean field, and therefore cannot be interpreted as a quenching. 
Gravitational clustering is an intrinsically non-linear process that generates significant non-Gaussian signatures in the density field. We consider how these affect power spectrum determinations from galaxy and weak-lensing surveys. Non-Gaussian effects not only increase the individual error bars compared to the Gaussian case but, most importantly, lead to non-trivial cross-correlations between different band-powers. We calculate the power-spectrum covariance matrix in non-linear perturbation theory (weakly non-linear regime), in the hierarchical model (strongly non-linear regime), and from numerical simulations in real and redshift space. We discuss the impact of these results on parameter estimation from power spectrum measurements and their dependence on the size of the survey and the choice of band-powers. We show that the non-Gaussian terms in the covariance matrix become dominant for scales smaller than the non-linear scale, depending somewhat on power normalization. Furthermore, we find that cross-correlations mostly deteriorate the determination of the amplitude of a rescaled power spectrum, whereas its shape is less affected. In weak lensing surveys the projection tends to reduce the importance of non-Gaussian effects. Even so, for background galaxies at redshift z=1, the non-Gaussian contribution rises significantly around l=1000, and could become comparable to the Gaussian terms depending upon the power spectrum normalization and cosmology. The projection has another interesting effect: the ratio between non-Gaussian and Gaussian contributions saturates and can even decrease at small enough angular scales if the power spectrum of the 3D field falls faster than 1/k^2. 
We present the results of modelling the distribution of gas properties in the galaxy groups HCG51, HCG62 and NGC5044, and in the poor cluster AWM7, using both ASCA SIS and ROSAT data. The spectral quality of the ASCA data allows the radial distribution in the abundances of several elements to be resolved. In all systems apart from HCG51, we see both central cooling flows, and a general decline in metal abundances with radius. The ratio of iron to alpha-element abundances varies significantly, and in comparison with theoretical supernova yields, indicates a significant contribution to the metal abundance of the intergalactic medium (IGM) from type Ia supernovae. This is seen both within the groups, and also throughout much of the cluster AWM7. The total energy input into the IGM from supernovae can be calculated from our results, and is typically 20-40 per cent of the thermal energy of the gas, mostly from SNe II. Our results support the idea that the SN II ejecta have been more widely distributed in the IGM, probably due to the action of galaxy winds, and the lower iron mass to light ratio in groups suggests that some of this enriched gas has been lost altogether from the shallower potential wells of the smaller systems. 
We carried out the first wide-area unbiased survey with the ASCA satellite in the 0.7-10 keV band around a north Galactic-pole region covering a continuous area of 7 square degrees (Large Sky Survey; LSS). To make the best use of ASCA capability, we developed a new source-detection method where the complicated detector responses are fully taken into account. Applying this method to the entire LSS data independently in the total (0.7-7 keV), hard (2-10 keV), and soft (0.7-2 keV) band, we detected 107 sources altogether with sensitivity limits of 6 x 10E-14 (0.7-7 keV), 1 x 10E-13 (2-10 keV), and 2 x 10E-14 erg sE-1 cmE-2 (0.7-2 keV), respectively. A complete list of the detected sources is presented. Based on detailed studies by Monte Carlo simulations, we evaluated effects of the source confusion and accurately derived Log N - Log S relation in each survey band. The Log N - Log S relation in the hard band is located on the extrapolation from the GINGA and HEAO1 results with the Euclidean slope of -3/2, while that in the soft band is consistent with the results by ROSAT. At these flux limits, 30 (+/- 3) percent of the CXB in the 0.7-7 keV band and 23 (+/- 3) percent in the 2-10 keV band have been resolved into discrete sources. The average spectrum of faint sources detected in the total band shows a photon index of 1.63 +/- 0.07 in the 0.7-10 keV range, consistent with the comparison of source counts between the hard and the soft energy band. Those detected in the hard band show a photon index of 1.49 +/- 0.10 in the 2-10 keV range. These spectral properties suggest that contribution of sources with hard energy spectra become significant at a flux of 10E-13 erg sE-1 cmE-2 (2-10 keV). The most plausible candidates are type-II AGNs, as indicated by on-going optical identifications. 
We study numerical simulations of satellite galaxy disruption in a potential resembling that of the Milky Way. Our goal is to assess whether a merger origin for the stellar halo would leave observable fossil structure in the phase-space distribution of nearby stars. We show how mixing of disrupted satellites can be quantified using a coarse-grained entropy. Although after 10 Gyr few obvious asymmetries remain in the distribution of particles in configuration space, strong correlations are still present in velocity space. We give a simple analytic description of these effects, based on a linearised treatment in action-angle variables, which shows how the kinematic and density structure of the debris stream changes with time. By applying this description we find that a single satellite of current luminosity $10^8 L_\sun$ disrupted 10 Gyr ago from an orbit circulating in the inner halo (mean apocentre $\sim 12$ kpc) would contribute about $\sim 30$ kinematically cold streams with internal velocity dispersions below 5 km/s to the local stellar halo. If the whole stellar halo were built by disrupted satellites, it should consist locally of 300 - 500 such streams. Clear detection of all these structures would require a sample of a few thousand stars with 3-D velocities accurate to better than 5 km/s. Even with velocity errors several times worse than this, the expected clumpiness should be quite evident. We apply our formalism to a group of stars detected near the North Galactic Pole, and derive an order of magnitude estimate for the initial properties of the progenitor system. 
The ROSAT Deep Survey in the Lockman Hole is the most sensitive X-ray survey performed to date, encompassing an exposure time of 200 ksec with the PSPC and 1.2 Msec with the HRI. The source counts reach a density of ~1000/deg2 at a limiting flux of ~1E-15 erg/cm2/s. At this level 70-80% of the 0.5-2 keV X-ray background is resolved into discrete sources. Because of the excellent HRI positions, 83 X-ray sources with fluxes (0.5-2 keV) above 1.2E-15 erg/cm2/s could be optically identified so far utilizing deep optical CCD images, NIR photometry and Keck spectroscopy. Only 11 sources above this flux limit remain unidentified. The majority of objects turned out to be active galactic nuclei (AGN) with minority contributions of clusters of galaxies, stars and some individual galaxies. These deep pencil beam data together with a number of shallower ROSAT surveys define the source counts over six orders of magnitude in flux and provide a unique tool of unprecedented quality to study the cosmological evolution of AGN, which can easily provide the bulk of the extragalactic X-ray background and could give an important contribution to the total background light in the universe. 
We examine several aspects of redshift distortions by expressing the redshift-space density in terms of the eigenvalues and orientation of the local Lagrangian deformation tensor. We explore the importance of multiple-streaming using the Zel'dovich approximation (ZA), and compute the average number of streams in real and redshift-space. It is found that multiple-streaming can be significant in redshift-space but negligible in real-space, even at moderate values of the linear fluctuation amplitude ($\sigma < 1$). Moreover, unlike their real-space counter-parts, redshift-space multiple-streams can flow past each other with minimal interactions. Such nonlinear redshift-space effects, which operate even when the real-space density field is quite linear, could suppress the classic compression of redshift-structures predicted by linear theory (Kaiser 1987). We also compute using the ZA the probability distribution function (PDF) of density, as well as $S_3$, in real and redshift-space, and compare it with the PDF measured from N-body simulations. The role of caustics in defining the character of the high density tail is examined. It is found that (non-Lagrangian) smoothing, due to both finite resolution or discreteness and small-scale velocity dispersions, is very effective in erasing caustic structures, unless the initial power spectrum is sufficiently truncated. 
We calculate the expected spectrum and light curves of the early afterglow. For short GRBs the peak of the afterglow will be delayed, typically, by a few dozens of seconds after the burst. The x-ray and gamma-ray characteristics of this delayed emission provide a way to discriminate between late internal shocks emission (part of the GRB) and the early afterglow signal. Detection of this delayed emission will prove the internal shock scenario as producing the GRB, and will pinpoint the initial Lorentz factor gamma_0. In the optical band, the dominant emission arises from the reverse shock. This shock, carries an energy comparable to that of the forward shock. It radiates this energy at much lower frequencies, producing a short optical flash of 15th magnitude or brighter. 
The multiwavelength spectra of PKS 0528+134 during six years of observations by EGRET have been analyzed using synchrotron self-Compton (SSC) and external radiation Compton (ERC) models. We find that a two-component model, in which the target photons are produced externally to the gamma-ray emitting region, but also including an SSC component, is required to suitably reproduce the spectral energy distributions of the source. Our analysis indicates that there is a trend in the observed properties of PKS 0528+134, as the source goes from a gamma-ray low state to a flaring state. We observe that during the higher gamma-ray states, the bulk Lorentz factor of the jet increases and the ERC component dominates the high-energy emission. Our model calculations indicate the trend that the energies of the electrons giving rise to the synchrotron peak decreases, and the power-ratio of the gamma-ray and low energy spectral components increases, as the source goes from a low to a high gamma-ray state. 
An electron-positron atmosphere is inevitably created around a black hole accretion disc, the spectrum of which extends to MeV energies. Pairs created in photon-photon collisions outside the disc are blown away by soft radiation (which dominates the bolometric luminosity of the disc) and form a semirelativistic outflow. We simulate numerically the conversion of the MeV radiation into a vertical e+- outflow above a disc-like source. The outflowing e+- plasma becomes optically thick to Thomson scattering if the compactness of the gamma-ray source exceeds 30. The scattering by e+- then collimates the bulk of soft radiation along the disc axis, and the apparent bolometric luminosity of the disc depends strongly on its inclination to the line of sight. The anisotropic central emission may account for the lack of Fe K-alpha lines in the X-ray spectra of bright radio-quiet quasars. The scattering in e+- outflows may also explain the orientation of optical polarization in non-blazar active galactic nuclei. 
Models of black hole accretion disks are reviewed, with an emphasis on the theory of hard X-ray production. The following models are considered: i) standard, ii) super-critical, iii) two-temperature, and iv) disk+corona. New developments have recently been made in hydrodynamical models of accretion and in phenomenological radiative models fitting the observed X-ray spectra. Attempts to unify the two approaches are only partly successful. 
For the first time, we have a plausible and complete accounting of matter and energy in the Universe. Expressed a fraction of the critical density it goes like this: neutrinos, between 0.3% and 15%; stars, between 0.3% and 0.6%; baryons (total), 5% +/- 0.5%; matter (total), 40% +/- 10%; smooth, dark energy, 80% +/- 20%; totaling to the critical density (within the errors). This accounting is consistent with the inflationary prediction of a flat Universe and defines three dark-matter problems: Where are the dark baryons? What is the nonbaryonic dark matter? What is the nature of the dark energy? The leading candidate for the (optically) dark baryons is diffuse hot gas; the leading candidates for the nonbaryonic dark matter are slowly moving elementary particles left over from the earliest moments (cold dark matter), such as axions or neutralinos; the leading candidates for the dark energy involve fundamental physics and include a cosmological constant (vacuum energy), a rolling scalar field (quintessence), and a network of light, frustrated topological defects. 
The Soft Gamma Repeater 1806-20 produced patterns of bursts during its 1983 outburst that indicate multiple independent energy accumulation sites, each driven by a continuous power source, with sudden, incomplete releases of the accumulated energy. The strengths of the power sources and their durations of activity vary over several orders of magnitude. 
Empirical probability models for BATSE GRB location errors are developed via a Bayesian analysis of the separations between BATSE GRB locations and locations obtained with the InterPlanetary Network (IPN). Models are compared and their parameters estimated using 392 GRBs with single IPN annuli and 19 GRBs with intersecting IPN annuli. Most of the analysis is for the 4Br BATSE catalog; earlier catalogs are also analyzed. The simplest model that provides a good representation of the error distribution has 78% of the probability in a `core' term with a systematic error of 1.85 degrees and the remainder in an extended tail with a systematic error of 5.1 degrees, implying a 68% confidence radius for bursts with negligible statistical uncertainties of 2.2 degrees. There is evidence for a more complicated model in which the error distribution depends on the BATSE datatype that was used to obtain the location. Bright bursts are typically located using the CONT datatype, and according to the more complicated model, the 68% confidence radius for CONT-located bursts with negligible statistical uncertainties is 2.0 degrees. 
Inversions of rotational splittings have shown that there exists at the base of the solar convection zone a region called the tachocline in which high radial gradients of the rotation rate occur. The usual linear regularization methods tend to smooth out any high gradients in the solution, and may not be appropriate for the study of this zone. In this paper we use, in the helioseismic context of rotation inversions, regularization methods that have been developed for edge-preserving regularization in computed imaging. It is shown from Monte-Carlo simulations that this approach can lead directly to results similar to those reached by linear inversions which however required some assumptions on the shape of the transition in order to be deconvolved. The application of this method to LOWL data leads to a very thin tachocline. From the discussions on the parameters entering the inversion and the Monte-Carlo simulations, our conclusion is that the tachocline width is very likely below 0.05R_sun which lowers our previous estimate of 0.05+/- 0.03R_sun obtained from the same dataset (Corbard et al. 1998). 
One hundred years ago we did not know how stars generate energy, the age of the Universe was thought to be only millions of years, and our Milky Way galaxy was the only galaxy known. Today, we know that we live in an evolving and expanding Universe comprising billions of galaxies, all held together by dark matter. With the hot big-bang model, we can trace the evolution of the Universe from the hot soup of quarks and leptons that existed a fraction of a second after the beginning to the formation of galaxies a few billion years later, and finally to the Universe we see today 13 billion years after the big bang, with its clusters of galaxies, superclusters, voids, and great walls. The attractive force of gravity acting on tiny primeval inhomogeneities in the distribution of matter gave rise to all the structure seen today. A paradigm based upon deep connections between cosmology and elementary particle physics -- inflation + cold dark matter -- holds the promise of extending our understanding to an even more fundamental level and much earlier times, as well as shedding light on the unification of the forces and particles of nature. As we enter the 21st century, a flood of observations is testing this paradigm. 
During the period of reionization the Universe was filled with a cosmological background of ionizing radiation. By that time a significant fraction of the cosmic gas had already been incorporated into collapsed galactic halos with virial temperatures below about 10000 K that were unable to cool efficiently. We show that photoionization of this gas by the fresh cosmic UV background boiled the gas out of the gravitational potential wells of its host halos. We calculate the photoionization heating of gas inside spherically symmetric dark matter halos, and assume that gas which is heated above its virial temperature is expelled. In popular Cold Dark Matter models, the Press-Schechter halo abundance implies that about 50-90% of the collapsed gas was evaporated at reionization. The gas originated from halos below a threshold circular velocity of 10-15 km/s. The resulting outflows from the dwarf galaxy population at redshifts 5-10 affected the metallicity, thermal and hydrodynamic state of the surrounding intergalactic medium. Our results suggest that stellar systems with a velocity dispersion below about 10 km/s, such as globular clusters or the dwarf spheroidal galaxies of the Local Group, did not form directly through cosmological collapse at high redshifts. 
Deep Keck spectropolarimetry has been obtained of a sample of powerful radio galaxies with $z \sim 2.5 \pm 1$. In addition to a clear 2200\AA dust scattering/extinction signature and an inverse correlation between the degree of continuum polarization and the Lyman-\alpha emission line strength (relative to C IV), we find an intriguing positive correlation between the N~V/C IV ratio and the polarization. The line ratio, which varies by almost a dex amongst objects having a very similar ionization state, is most likely to indicate an abundance ratio. We speculate that the correlation with polarization represents a connection between nitrogen enhancement and dust production following a major starburst event connected with the birth of the quasar. 
This course presents some applications of gravitational lensing to the measurement of masses of galaxies (galaxy-galaxy lensing, Eintein rings, perturbations of giant arcs) and cluster of galaxies (strong and weak lensing). This complements the F. Bernardeau's course dedicated to some theoretical aspects and weak lensing by large scale structures. In the first section, I describe the most important lensing quantities and lensing properties useful for astrophycal applications. Then I briefly present some academic exemples. Section three is devoted to exemples of mass reconstruction and the study of mass distribution in clusters of galaxies and galaxies. 
The purpose of these lecture notes is to describe the gravitational lens effects in different astrophysical contexts. These notes are voluntarily focused on the fundamental mechanisms and the basic concepts that are useful to describe these effects. The observational consequences are presented in more details in accompanying notes by Y. Mellier.   The content of these notes is the following. In the first section describe of the basic mechanisms of gravitational lenses, techniques and approximations that are usually employed. The second section is devoted to the case of a very simple deflector, a point-like mass distribution. This corresponds to microlensing events in which the deflectors are compact objects of a fraction of a solar mass that may populate the halo of our Galaxy. The last two sections are devoted to cosmological applications. After a presentation of the geometrical quantities that are specific to cosmology, I will present the various phenomena that can be observed in this context. Finally I describe the weak lensing regime. This is a rapidly developing area that should eventually allow us to map the mass distribution in the Universe. 
We show that the neutron star minimum period of rotation is determined, for causal equations of state, by the maximum value of the relativistic (compactness) parameter 2GM/Rc^2, allowed by causality for static neutron stars, 0.7081, and by the largest measured mass of a neutron star. The relation between these three quantities, resulting from the extrapolation of the empirical formulae of Lasota et al. (1996), yields the minimum period of 0.288 ms, only 2% higher than an absolute lower bound obtained in extensive exact numerical calculations of Koranda et al. (1997). 
Pre-solar grains of silicon carbide found in meteorites and interpreted as having had an origin around carbon stars from their isotopic composition, have all been found to be of the beta-SiC polytype. Yet to date fits to the 11.3 microns SiC emission band of carbon stars had been obtained only for alpha-SiC grains. We present thin film infrared (IR) absorption spectra measured in a diamond anvil cell for both the alpha- and beta- polymorphs of synthetic SiC and compare the results with previously published spectra taken using the KBr matrix method. We find that our thin film spectra have positions nearly identical to those obtained previously from finely ground samples in KBr. Hence, we show that this discrepancy has arisen from inappropriate `KBr corrections' having been made to laboratory spectra of SiC particles dispersed in KBr matrices. We re-fit a sample of carbon star mid-IR spectra, using laboratory data with no KBr correction applied, and show that beta-SiC grains fit the observations, while alpha-SiC grains do not. The discrepancy between meteoritic and astronomical identifications of the SiC-type is therefore removed. This work shows that the diamond anvil cell thin film method can be used to produce mineral spectra applicable to cosmic environments without further manipulation. 
The flow generated by low-density radiatively driven winds which decouple their gas and radiation fields is discussed. In particular we concentrate on flow which is still bound to the star and can therefore reaccrete. The wind decelerates after decoupling and eventually stalls. A shell of gas is generated, and we find that this shell is unstable and contracts back to the star with periods of hours to days.   We find that the pulsating shells may be difficult to observe, as their emission is variable and the maximum emission at H-alpha (of ~1% of the continuum) occurs over a small fraction of the shell cycle. 
The X-ray Background (XRB) probably originates from the integrated X-ray emission of active galactic nuclei (AGN). Modelling of its flat spectrum implies considerable absorption in most AGN. Compton down-scattering means that sources in which the absorption is Compton thick are unlikely to be major contributors to the background intensity so the observed spectral intensity at about 30 keV is little affected by photoelectric absorption. Assuming that the intrinsic photon index of AGN is 2, we then use the 30 keV intensity of the XRB to infer the absorption-corrected energy density of the background. Soltan's argument then enables us to convert this to a mean local density in black holes, assuming an accretion efficiency of 0.1 and a mean AGN redshift of 2. The result is within a factor of two of that estimated by Haehnelt et al from the optically-determined black hole masses of Magorrian et al. We conclude that there is no strong need for any radiatively inefficient mode of accretion for building the masses of black holes. Furthermore we show that the absorption model for the XRB implies that about 85 per cent of accretion power in the Universe is absorbed. This power probably emerges in the infrared bands where it can be several tens per cent of the recently inferred backgrounds there. The total power emitted by accretion is then about one fifth that of stars. 
Dark matter haloes are biased tracers of the underlying dark matter distribution. We use a simple model to provide a relation between the abundance of dark matter haloes and their spatial distribution on large scales. Our model shows that knowledge of the unconditional mass function alone is sufficient to provide an accurate estimate of the large scale bias factor. Then we use the mass function measured in numerical simulations of SCDM, OCDM and LCDM to compute this bias. Comparison with these simulations shows that this simple way of estimating the bias relation and its evolution is accurate for less massive haloes as well as massive ones. In particular, we show that haloes which are less/more massive than typical M* haloes at the time they form are more/less strongly clustered than formulae based on the standard Press-Schechter mass function predict. 
We present a study of a very peculiar object found in the field of the cluster-lens Abell 370. This object displays, in HST imaging, a spectacular morphology comparable to nearby ring-galaxies. From spectroscopic observations at the CFHT, we measured a redshift of $z=1.062$ based on the identification of [O ii] 3727 \AA and [Ne v] 3426 \AA emission lines. These emission lines are typical of starburst galaxies hosting a central active nucleus and are in good agreement with the assumption that this object is a ring-galaxy. This object is also detected with ISO in the LW2 and LW3 filters, and the mid Infra-Red (MIR) flux ratio favors a Seyfert 1 type. The shape of the ring is gravitationally distorted by the cluster-lens, and most particularly by a nearby cluster elliptical galaxy. Using the cluster mass model, we can compute its intrinsic shape. Requiring that the outer ring follows an ellipse we put constraints on the M/L ratio of the nearby galaxy and derive a magnification factor of 2.5 $\pm$ 0.2. The absolute luminosities of the source are then $L_B = 1.3 \ 10^{12} L_{B \odot}$ and $\nu$ L$_\nu \simeq 4. 10^{10}$ L$_\odot$ in the mid-IR. 
An introductory account is given of the inflationary cosmology, which postulates a period of accelerated expansion during the Universe's earliest stages. The historical motivation is briefly outlined, and the modelling of the inflationary epoch explained. The most important aspect of inflation is that it provides a possible model for the origin of structure in the Universe, and key results are reviewed, along with a discussion of the current observational situation and outlook. 
A new X-ray source, XTE J1855-026, was discovered during RXTE scans along the galactic plane. The source shows pulsations at a period of 361 s and also modulation at a period of 6.1 days which we interpret as the orbital period of the system. The X-ray spectrum above ~3 keV can be fitted with an absorbed power law model with a high-energy cut-off, and an iron emission line at approximately 6.4 keV. We interpret these results as indicating that XTE J1855-026 is likely to consist of a neutron star accreting from the wind of an O or B supergiant primary. A less likely interpretation is that XTE J1855-026 is instead a Be/neutron star binary, in which case it would have the shortest known orbital period for such a system. 
Combined ISO SWS and LWS spectroscopy is presented of the late WC-type planetary nebula nucleus CPD-56 8032 and its carbon-rich nebula. The extremely broad coverage (2.4-197 microns) enables us to recognize the clear and simultaneous presence of emission features from both oxygen- and carbon- rich circumstellar materials. Removing a smooth continuum highlights bright emission bands characteristic of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (hereafter PAHs) in the 3-14 micron region, bands from crystalline silicates longwards of 18 microns, and the 43- and 62-micron bands of crystalline water ice. We discuss the probable evolutionary state and history of this unusual object in terms of (a) a recent transition from an O-rich to a C-rich outflow following a helium shell flash; or (b) a carbon-rich nebular outflow encountering an O-rich comet cloud. 
We present complete constraints imposed from observations of the cosmic microwave background radiation (CMBR) on the chaotic inflationary scenario with a nonminimally coupled inflaton field proposed by Fakir and Unruh (FU). Our constraints are complete in the sense that we investigate both the scalar density perturbation and the tensor gravitational wave in the Jordan frame, as well as in the Einstein frame. This makes the constraints extremely strong without any ambiguities due to the choice of frames. We find that the FU scenario generates tiny tensor contributions to the CMBR relative to chaotic models in minimal coupling theory, in spite of its spectral index of scalar perturbation being slightly tilted. This means that the FU scenario will be excluded if any tensor contributions to CMBR are detected by the forthcoming satellite missions. Conversely, if no tensor nature is detected despite the tilted spectrum, a minimal chaotic scenario will be hard to explain and the FU scenario will be supported. 
I briefly summarize the main tenets of unified schemes of BL Lacs and low-luminosity radio galaxies, discussing in particular the evolution of this field after the Como 1988 meeting. I also examine some of the open problems and complications of the simplest scheme. Finally, the question of the existence of two classes of BL Lacs and our related change of perspective in the past few years are also addressed. 
We present new BeppoSAX LECS, MECS and PDS observations of five lobe-dominated, broad-line active galactic nuclei selected from the 2-Jy sample of southern radio sources. These include three radio quasars and two broad-line radio galaxies. ROSAT PSPC data, available for all the objects, are also used to better constrain the spectral shape in the soft X-ray band. The collected data cover the energy range 0.1 - 10 keV, reaching ~ 50 keV for one source (Pictor A). The main result from the spectral fits is that all sources have a hard X-ray spectrum with energy index alpha_x ~ 0.75 in the 2 - 10 keV range. This is at variance with the situation at lower energies where these sources exhibit steeper spectra. Spectral breaks ~ 0.5 at 1 - 2 keV characterize in fact the overall X-ray spectra of our objects. The flat, high-energy slope is very similar to that displayed by flat-spectrum/core-dominated quasars, which suggests that the same emission mechanism (most likely inverse Compton) produces the hard X-ray spectra in both classes. Finally, a (weak) thermal component is also present at low energies in the two broad-line radio galaxies included in our study. 
Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) are now known to be strong gamma-ray emitters. After briefly describing AGN classification and the main ideas behind unified schemes, I summarize the main properties of blazars (that is BL Lacs and flat-spectrum radio quasars) and their connection with relativistic beaming. Finally, I address the question of why blazars, despite being extreme and very rare objects, are the only AGN detected at high (E > 100 MeV) energies, and touch upon the relevance of TeV astronomy for AGN research. 
We have conducted a search for aperiodic millisecond variability in the integrated 1 to 25 keV X-ray region of Cyg X-1. We have examined HEAO A-1 archival data and Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) guest observer data for evidence of excess power above the Poisson noise floor using the relative integral power analysis and the Fourier transform method. Our results are in disagreement with the results of Meekins et al. (1984). We attribute the discrepancy to an instrumental effect for which Meekins et al.(1984) did not apply a correction. With the correction we see no evidence for excess power above 25 Hz in the HEAO A-1 data. Our analysis of RXTE data is in agreement with previously published results of different data sets and shows no sign of excess power above 30 Hz. 
We report the discovery of X-ray emission from a radio knot at a projected distance of 25" from the nucleus of the Seyfert galaxy, 3C 120. The data were obtained with the ROSAT High Resolution Imager (HRI). Optical upper limits for the knot preclude a simple power law extension of the radio spectrum and we calculate some of the physical parameters for thermal bremsstrahlung and synchrotron self-Compton models. We conclude that no simple model is consistent with the data but if the knot contains small regions with flat spectra, these could produce the observed X-rays (via synchrotron emission) without being detected at other wavebands. 
New wide-field images of the Rho Ophiuchus molecular cloud at 850 and 450 microns obtained with SCUBA on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope reveal a wide variety of large-scale features that were previously unknown. Two linear features each 4' (0.2 pc) in length extend to the north of the bright emission region containing SM1 and VLA 1623. These features may correspond to the walls of a previously unidentified outflow cavity, or the boundary of a photon dominated region powered by a nearby B star. A previously unidentified source is located in the north-east region of the image. The properties of this source (diameter ~5000 AU, mass ~0.3-1 Msun) suggest that it is a pre-protostellar core. Two arcs of emission are seen in the direction of the north-west extension of the VLA 1623 outflow. The outer arc appears relatively smooth at 850 microns and is estimated to have a mass of ~0.3 Msun, while the inner arc breaks up into a number of individual clumps, some of which are previously identified protostars. 
We observed a 10x20 pc region of the molecular cloud M17 in the 12CO and 13CO J=3-2 and J=2-1 transitions to determine their global behavior and to assess the reliability of using ratios of CO line intensities integrated over an entire cloud to determine the physical conditions within the cloud. Both the 12CO/13CO J=2-1 and J=3-2 line ratios correlate with the 13CO integrated intensity, with smaller line ratios observed at locations with large integrated intensities. This correlation is likely due to variations in the column density from one position to another within M17. The 12CO and 13CO (J=3-2/J=2-1) line ratios show no significant variation from place to place within M17, even on the peak of the photon-dominated region. A Large Velocity Gradient analysis of globally averaged line ratios gives results in reasonable agreement with the results obtained for individual lines-of-sight through the cloud, which suggests that the typical physical conditions in a molecular cloud can be determined using CO line ratios integrated over the entire cloud. There appears to be a clear trend of increasing 12CO/13CO J=2-1 and J=3-2 line ratios as one moves from Galactic molecular cloud cores to entire Galactic molecular clouds to normal galaxies. The most likely explanation of the high line ratios for normal galaxies is a significant contribution to the CO emission by low column density material, such as diffuse molecular clouds or the outer envelopes of giant molecular clouds. 
The possibility to have an infinite open inflationary universe inside a bubble of a finite size is one of the most interesting realizations extensively discussed in the literature. The original idea was based on the theory of tunneling and bubble formation in the theories of a single scalar field. However, for a long time we did not have any consistent models of this type, so it was impossible to compare predictions of such models with the observational data on the CMB anisotropy. The first semi-realistic model of this type was proposed only very recently, in hep-ph/9807493. Here we present the results of our investigation of the scalar and tensor perturbation spectra and the resulting CMB anisotropy in such models. In all models which we have studied there are no supercurvature perturbations. The spectrum of scalar CMB anisotropies has a minimum at small l and a plateau at l > O(10) for low Omega_0. Meanwhile tensor CMB anisotropies are peaked at l=2. Relative magnitude of the scalar CMB spectra versus tensor CMB spectra at small l depends on the parameters of the models. 
The symmetric multistep methods developed by Quinlan and Tremaine (1990) are shown to suffer from resonances and instabilities at special stepsizes when used to integrate nonlinear equations. This property of symmetric multistep methods was missed in previous studies that considered only the linear stability of the methods. The resonances and instabilities are worse for high-order methods than for low-order methods, and the number of bad stepsizes increases with the number frequencies present in the solution. Symmetric methods are still recommended for some problems, including long-term integrations of planetary orbits, but the high-order methods must be used with caution. 
Using PSPC {\it Rosat} data, we measure x-ray surface brightness profiles, size and luminosity of the Butcher-Oemler (BO) sample of clusters of galaxies. The cluster x-ray size, as measured by the Petrosian r_{\eta=2} radius, does not change with redshift and is independent from x-ray luminosity. On the other hand, the x-ray luminosity increases with redshift. Considering that fair samples show no-evolution, or negative luminosity evolution, we conclude that the BO sample is not formed from the same class of objects observed at different look-back times. This is in conflict with the usual interpretation of the Butcher-Oemler as an evolutionary (or redshift-dependent) effect, based on the assumption that we are comparing the same class of objects at different redshifts. Other trends present in the BO sample reflect selection criteria rather than differences in look-back time, as independently confirmed by the fact that trends loose strength when we enlarge the sample with x-ray selected sample of clusters. The variety of optical sizes and shapes of the clusters in the Butcher-Oemler sample, and the Malmquist-like bias, are the reasons for these selection effects that mimic the trends usually interpreted as changes due to evolution. 
We use a new method, the cross power spectrum between the linear density field and the halo number density field, to measure the Lagrangian bias for dark matter halos. The method has several important advantages over the conventional correlation function analysis. By applying this method to a set of high-resolution simulations of 256^3 particles, we have accurately determined the Lagrangian bias, over 4 magnitudes in halo mass, for four scale-free models with the index n=-0.5, -1.0, -1.5 and -2.0 and three typical CDM models. Our result for massive halos with $M \ge M_*$ ($M_*$ is a characteristic non-linear mass) is in very good agreement with the analytical formula of Mo & White for the Lagrangian bias, but the analytical formula significantly underestimates the Lagrangian clustering for the less massive halos $M < M_*. Our simulation result however can be satisfactorily described, with an accuracy better than 15%, by the fitting formula of Jing for Eulerian bias under the assumption that the Lagrangian clustering and the Eulerian clustering are related with a linear mapping. It implies that it is the failure of the Press-Schechter theories for describing the formation of small halos that leads to the inaccuracy of the Mo & White formula for the Eulerian bias. The non-linear mapping between the Lagrangian clustering and the Eulerian clustering, which was speculated as another possible cause for the inaccuracy of the Mo & White formula, must at most have a second-order effect. Our result indicates that the halo formation model adopted by the Press-Schechter theories must be improved. 
The east-west anisotropy, caused by the deflection of primary cosmic rays in the Earth's magnetic field, is observed for the first time in the flux of atmospheric neutrinos. Using a 45 kt-year exposure of the   Super-Kamiokande detector, 552 e-like and 633 mu-like horizontally-going events are selected in the momentum range between 400 and 3000 MeV/c.   The azimuthal distribution of e-like and mu-like events agrees with the expectation from atmospheric neutrino flux calculations that account for the geomagnetic field, verifying that the geomagnetic field effects in the production of atmospheric neutrinos in the GeV energy range are well understood. 
We present UBVI CCD photometry of two open clusters NGC 1798 and NGC 2192 which were little studied before. Color-magnitude diagrams of these clusters show several features typical for old open clusters: a well-defined main-sequence, a red giant clump, and a small number of red giants. The main sequence of NGC 1798 shows a distinct gap at V ~ 16.2 mag. From the surface number density distribution we have measured the size of the clusters, obtaining 8'.3 (= 10.2 pc) for NGC 1798 and 7'.3 (= 7.5 pc) for NGC 2192. Then we have determined the reddening, metallicity, and distance of these clusters using the color-color diagrams and color-magnitude diagrams: E(B-V)=0. 51\pm0.04, [Fe/H] = -0.47\pm0.15 dex and (m-M)_0=13.1\pm0.2 (d=4.2\pm 0.3 kpc) for NGC 1798, and E(B-V)=0.20\pm0.03, [Fe/H] = -0.31\pm0.15 dex and (m-M)_0=12.7\pm0.2 (d=3.5\pm 0.3 kpc) for NGC 2192. The ages of these clusters have been estimated using the morphological age indicators and the isochrone fitting with the Padova isochrones: 1.4 \pm 0.2 Gyrs for NGC 1798 and 1.1 \pm 0.1 Gyrs for NGC 2192. The luminosity functions of the main sequence stars in these clusters are found to be similar to other old open clusters. The metallicity and distance of these clusters are consistent with the relation between the metallicity and galactocentric distance of other old open clusters. 
(abridged) Huge amplitude X-ray outbursts in a few galaxies were reported in the last few years. As one of the exciting possibilities to explain these observations, tidal disruption of a star by a supermassive black hole has been proposed. In the present paper, we perform a detailed discussion of this and other possible scenarios for the X-ray outburst in NGC 5905, and a comparison of NGC 5905 and IC 3599 in outburst as well as in quiescence. To this end we present (i) a thorough analysis of all ROSAT observations of NGC 5905, (ii) optical photometry of NGC 5905 quasi-simultaneous to the X-ray outburst, (iii) the first post-outburst optical spectra of NGC 5905 and high-resolution post-outburst spectra of IC 3599, and (iv) photoionization models for the high-excitation emission lines that were discovered in the optical outburst spectrum of IC 3599. The investigated outburst models include, besides the tidal disruption event, a supernova in dense medium, an accretion-disk instability, an event of extreme gravitational lensing, and the X-ray afterglow of a GRB. The optical spectra of both galaxies in quiescence are carefully examined for signs of permanent low-level Seyfert-activity. Whereas IC 3599 shows several signs of activity, none is revealed for NGC 5905. At present, and among the X-ray bursts, this makes NGC 5905 the only safe candidate for a tidal disruption event in an otherwise non-active galaxy. We briefly comment on a search for further highly variable objects on the basis of ROSAT observations. Several with factors 10-20 are found. 
The Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC 2110 has been observed with BeppoSAX between 0.5 and 150 keV. The high energy instrument onboard, PDS, has succeeded in measuring for the first time the spectrum of this source in the 13-150 keV range. The PDS spectrum, having a photon index Gamma~1.86 is fully compatible with that expected from a Seyfert 1 nucleus. In the framework of unified models, the harder (Gamma~1.67) 2-10 keV spectrum is well explained assuming the presence of a complex partial + total absorber (Nh~30x10^22 cm^-2 x25% + Nh~4x10^22 cm^-2 x100%). The high column density of this complex absorber is consistent both with the FeK_alpha line strength and with the detection of an absorption edge at E~7.1 keV in the power-law spectrum. 
We investigate the effects of weak gravitational lensing in the standard Cold Dark Matter cosmology, using an algorithm which evaluates the shear in three dimensions. The algorithm has the advantage of variable softening for the particles, and our method allows the appropriate angular diameter distances to be applied to every evaluation location within each three-dimensional simulation box. We investigate the importance of shear in the distance-redshift relation, and find it to be very small. We also establish clearly defined values for the smoothness parameter in the relation, finding its value to be at least 0.88 at all redshifts in our simulations. From our results, obtained by linking the simulation boxes back to source redshifts of 4, we are able to observe the formation of structure in terms of the computed shear, and also note that the major contributions to the shear come from a very broad range of redshifts. We show the probability distributions for the magnification, source ellipticity and convergence, and also describe the relationships amongst these quantities for a range of source redshifts. We find a broad range of magnifications and ellipticities; for sources at a redshift of 4, 97{1/2}% of all lines of sight show magnifications up to 1.3 and ellipticities up to 0.195. There is clear evidence that the magnification is not linear in the convergence, as might be expected for weak lensing, but contains contributions from higher order terms in both the convergence and the shear. 
We report on BeppoSAX broad band (0.1-100 keV) observations of bright Seyfert 2 galaxies and discuss the results in the framework of the unified theory of AGNs. The data are used to probe Nh distribution in type 2 objects and to identify heavily absorbed (10^24 <= Nh <= 10^25 cm^-2) sources, which are particularly bright in hard X-rays. They also provide, for the first time, high energy spectral data on Seyfert 2s and tight constraints on the shape of their intrinsic power law continuum. These results confirm the basic expectations of the unified theory and indicate where the INTEGRAL mission can give a substantial contribution. 
We calculate the expected white dwarf luminosity functions and discovery functions in photometric passbands, if these stellar remnants provide a substantial fraction of the sought Galactic dark matter, as suggested on various observational grounds. We demonstrate the extremely rapid variation of the photometic signature of halo white dwarfs with time and thus the powerful diagnostic of white dwarf colors to determine the age of the Galactic halo. We also consider the various indirect constraints implied by a white dwarf dominated halo. These calculations will guide present and future observational projects at faint magnitudes. This will enable us to determine not only the nature of the Galactic dark matter but also the age and the initial conditions of the Galaxy formation. 
I review recent activity in the field of intermediate polars, concentrating on: the mode of accretion (disc-fed, disc-overflow or discless); accretion curtains (the transition region and the accretion footprint); X-ray pulse profiles (occultation and absorption effects); accretion columns (mass determinations, line-broadening, the soft X-ray component), and outbursts in intermediate polars. 
We present imaging results and source counts from an ISOCAM deep and ultra-deep cosmological survey through gravitationally lensing clusters of galaxies at 7 and 15 microns. A total area of about 53 sq.arcmin was covered in maps of three clusters. The lensing increases the sensitivity of the survey. A large number of luminous mid-infrared (MIR) sources were detected behind the lenses, and most could be unambiguously identified with visible counterparts. Thanks to the gravitational amplification, these results include the faintest MIR detections ever recorded, extending source counts to an unprecedented level. The source counts, corrected for cluster contamination and lensing distortion effects, show an excess by a factor of 10 with respect to the prediction of a no-evolution model, as we reported for A2390 alone in Altieri et al. (1999). These results support the A2390 result that the resolved 7 and 15 microns background radiation intensities are 1.7 (+/- 0.5) x 10^-9 and 3.3 (+/- 1.3) x 10^-9 W/m^2/sr, respectively, integrating from 30 microJy to 50 mJy. 
The 1991 ROSAT PSPC M31 X-ray point source catalog has been screened in order to set up a sample of candidate supersoft sources in this galaxy, additional to the 16 supersoft sources of Supper et al. (1997). 26 candidates have been found. Absorbing hydrogen column densities, effective temperatures and white dwarf masses (assuming the sources are on the stability line of surface nuclear burning) are derived. An observed white dwarf mass distribution is derived which indicates that the masses are constrained to values above 0.90 solar masses. The entire population of supersoft sources in M31 is estimated taking a theoretical white dwarf mass distribution into account, assuming that the observationally derived sample is restricted to white dwarf masses above 0.90 solar, and taking into account that the gas and the source population have a different scale height. A total number of at least 200-500 and at most 6,000-15,000 sources is deduced depending on the used galaxy N_H model, making use of the population synthesis calculation of Yungelson (1996). The spatial distribution favors a disk (or spiral-arm) dominated young stellar population with a ratio of 1/(4-7) of bulge/disk systems. Assuming that all supersoft sources with masses in excess of 0.5 solar masses are progenitors of supernovae of type Ia, a SN Ia rate of (0.8-7) 10^-3 yr^-1 is derived for M31 based on these progenitors. Supersoft sources might account for 20-100% of the total SN Ia rate in a galaxy like M31. 
Pulsars in close, eccentric binary systems are usually assumed to have another neutron star as a companion. These double neutron star binaries have proven to be the best laboratories for experimental General Relativity and are the most secure candidates for gravitational wave interferometers. We present deep B, V, and R images of the field containing the eccentric binary pulsar system PSR B2303+46. We find a faint, blue object (B=26.60+/-0.09; (B-R)_0=-0.4+/-0.2) coincident with the timing position. We suggest this object is the optical counterpart to the PSR B2303+46 system. The counterpart is too bright to reflect emission from the pulsar or a neutron star companion. Most likely, the companion of PSR B2303+46 is not a neutron star but a massive white dwarf. We show that the observations are consistent with a hot white dwarf companion (T_eff>~5*10^4 K) with cooling age equal the characteristic age of the pulsar (t_cool~30 Myr) and mass within the range set by timing observations and the Chandrasekhar mass (1.2<M_C<1.4 M_sun). Given the eccentric orbit, the white dwarf must have formed before the neutron star, from what was originally the more massive star in the binary. Due to mass transfer, the originally less massive star could become sufficiently massive to end its life in a supernova explosion and form the radio pulsar. We constrain the mass of the pulsar to be in the range 1.24<M_psr<1.44 M_sun. 
The effects of radiative energy exchange on the convective instability of a weak field magnetic structure, which lead to a prediction and a physical explanation of the magnetic flux dependent field strength, are examined in detail using a real model stratification for the photospheric and convection zone structure of the Sun. Adopting the generalised Eddington approximation for the radiative transfer, which is valid both in the optically thick and the thin limits, we model the lateral radiative energy exchange by the tube with the external medium with a self-consistent inclusion of vertical radiative losses. 
The global structure of galaxy clusters and its evolution are tested within a large set of TREESPH simulations, so to allow a fair statistical comparison with available X-ray data. Structure tests are based on the "power ratios", introduced by Buote & Tsai. Cosmological models considered are CDM, LCDM (Omega_L=0.7) and CHDM (1 mass.neu., Omega_h = 0.2). All models are normalized to provide a fair number density of clusters. For each model we run a P3M simulation in a large box, where we select the most massive 40 clusters. Going back to the initial redshift we run a hydro-TREESPH simulation for each of them. In this way we perform a statistical comparison of the global morphology of clusters, for each cosmological model, with ROSAT data, using Student t-test, F-test and K-S test. The last test and its generalization to 2--D distributions are also used to compare the joint distributions of 2 or 3 power ratios. We find that, using DM distribution, instead of gas, as done by some authors, leads to biased results, as baryons are distributed in a less structured way than DM. We also find that the cosmological models considered have different behaviours in these tests: LCDM has the worst performance. CDM and our CHDM have similar scores. The general trend of power ratio distributions is already fit by these models, but a further improvement is expected either from a different DM mix or a non-flat CDM model. 
We study the possible existence of deconfined quark matter in the interior of neutron stars using the Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model to describe the quark phase. We find that typical neutron stars with masses around 1.4 solar masses do not possess any deconfined quark matter in their center. This can be traced back to the property of the NJL model which suggests a large constituent strange quark mass over a wide range of densities. 
A galaxy disk embedded in a rotating halo experiences a dynamical friction force which causes it to warp when the angular momentum axes of the disk and halo are misaligned. Our fully self-consistent simulations of this process induce long-lived warps in the disk which mimic Briggs's rules of warp behavior. They also demonstrate that random motion within the disk adds significantly to its stiffness. Moreover, warps generated in this way have no winding problem and are more pronounced in the extended \h1 disk. As emphasized by Binney and his co-workers, angular momentum misalignments, which are expected in hierarchical models of galaxy formation, can account for the high fraction of warped galaxies. Our simulations exemplify the role of misaligned spins in warp formation even when the halo density is not significantly flattened. 
The Constellation X-ray Mission is a high throughput X-ray facility emphasizing observations at high spectral resolution (E/\Delta E \sim 300-3000), and broad energy bandpass (0.25-40 keV). Constellation-X will provide a factor of nearly 100 increase in sensitivity over current high resolution X-ray spectroscopy missions. It is the X-ray astronomy equivalent of large ground-based optical telescopes such as the Keck Observatory and the ESO Very Large Telescope. When observations commence toward the end of next decade, Constellation-X will address many fundamental astrophysics questions such as: the formation and evolution of clusters of galaxies; constraining the baryon content of the Universe; determining the spin and mass of supermassive black holes in AGN; and probing strong gravity in the vicinity of black holes. 
Our current knowledge of the dynamical structure of the Kuiper Belt is reviewed here. Numerical results on long term orbital evolution and dynamical mechanisms underlying the transport of objects out of the Kuiper Belt are discussed. Scenarios about the origin of the highly non-uniform orbital distribution of Kuiper Belt objects are described, as well as the constraints these provide on the formation and long term dynamical evolution of the outer Solar system. Possible mechanisms include an early history of orbital migration of the outer planets, a mass loss phase in the outer Solar system and scattering by large planetesimals. The origin and dynamics of the scattered component of the Kuiper Belt is discussed. Inferences about the primordial mass distribution in the trans-Neptune region are reviewed. Outstanding questions about Kuiper Belt dynamics are listed. 
Neutrino emission via the plasma process using the vertex formalism for QED in a strongly magnetized plasma is considered. A new vertex function is introduced to include the axial vector part of the weak interaction. Our results are compared with previous calculations, and the effect of the axial vector coupling on neutrino emission is discussed. The contribution from the axial vector coupling can be of the same order as or greater than the vector vector coupling under certain plasma conditions. 
Motivated by the recent measurement of the primeval abundance of deuterium, we re-examine the nuclear inputs to big-bang nucleosynthesis (BBN). Using Monte-Carlo realization of the nuclear cross-section data to directly estimate the theoretical uncertainties for the yields of D, 3-He and 7-Li, we show that previous estimates were a factor of 2 too large. We sharpen the BBN determination of the baryon density based upon deuterium, rho_B = (3.6 +/- 0.4) * 10^{-31} g/cm^3 (Omega_B h^2 = 0.019 +/- 0.0024), which leads to a predicted 4-He abundance, Y_P = 0.246 +/- 0.0014 and a stringent limit to the equivalent number of light neutrino species: N_nu < 3.20 (all at 95% cl). The predicted 7-Li abundance, 7-Li/H = (3.5 + 1.1 - 0.9) * 10^{-10}, is higher than that observed in pop II stars, (1.7 +/- 0.3) * 10^{-10} (both, 95% cl). We identify key reactions and the energies where further work is needed. 
The opacity of spiral galaxies is examined by modelling the dust and stellar content of individual galaxies. The model is applied to five late-type spiral galaxies (NGC 4013, IC 2531, UGC 1082, NGC 5529 and NGC 5907). Having analyzed a total of seven galaxies thus far, the five galaxies mentioned above plus UGC 2048 and NGC 891 presented in (Xilouris et al. 1997, 1998), we are able to draw some general conclusions, the most significant of which are: 1) The face-on central optical depth is less than one in all optical bands indicating that typical spiral galaxies like the ones that we have modelled would be completely transparent if they were to be seen face-on. 2) The dust scaleheight is about half that of the stars, which means that the dust is more concentrated near the plane of the disk. 3) The dust scalelength is about 1.4 times larger than that of the stars and the dust is more radially extended than the stars. 4) The dust mass is found to be about an order of a magnitude more than previously measured using the IRAS fluxes, indicating the existence of a cold dust component. The gas-to-dust mass ratio calculated is close to the value derived for our Galaxy. 5) The derived extinction law matches quite well the Galactic extinction law, indicating a universal dust behaviour. 
The so-called ``G-dwarf problem'' emerged in the 1960's when it was noticed that the observed metal distribution of nearby stars differs from what is expected in simple models of the evolution of the Galaxy.   We have determined metallicities for a sample of over 100 K dwarfs drawn from the Hipparcos catalog, using R-I colours to estimate effective temperatures and Geneva photometry to estimate [Fe/H]. We show there is a K-dwarf problem. K-dwarfs have life-times older than the Galactic disc, so these are an ideal star with which to investigate the disc's chemical evolution. Further photometric observations of K dwarfs are under way. 
The HEGRA system of 4 Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes (IACTs) has been used to determine the flux and the spectrum of cosmic ray protons over a limited energy range around 1.5 TeV. Although the IACT system is designed for the detection of gamma-rays with energies above 500 GeV, it has also a large detection area of $ \simeq 10^6 m^2 \cdot 3 msr$ for primary protons of energies above 1 TeV and the capability to reconstruct the primary proton energy with a reasonable accuracy $\Delta$E/E of 50% near this threshold. Furthermore, the principle of stereoscopic detection of air showers permits the effective suppression of air showers induced by heavier primaries already on the trigger level, and in addition on the software level by analysis of the stereoscopic images. The combination of both capabilities permits a determination of the proton spectrum almost independently of the cosmic ray chemical composition. The accuracy of our estimate of the spectral index at 1.5 TeV is limited by systematic uncertainties and is comparable to the accuracy achieved with recent balloon and space borne experiments. In this paper we describe in detail the analysis tools, namely the detailed Monte Carlo simulation, the analysis procedure and the results. We determine the local (i.e. in the range of 1.5 to 3 TeV) differential spectral index to be $\gamma_p = 2.72\pm 0.02_{stat.}{\pm 0.15}_{syst.}$ and obtain an integral flux above 1.5 TeV of $F(> 1.5 TeV) =3.1\pm 0.6_{stat.}\pm 1.2_{syst.} 10^{-2}/s sr m^2$. 
We report the discovery of twin kHz quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) in the persistent X-ray flux of the new X-ray transient XTE J2123-058. We detected the QPOs in data taken with the proportional counter array on board the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer on 1998 July 14, when the source count rate was at about 50% of its outburst peak level. The frequencies of the QPOs were 853+/-4 Hz and 1129+/-8 Hz. The peaks had widths of 32 (+11/-8) Hz and 50 (+17/-13) Hz and the rms amplitudes were 6.1% (+0.7/-0.6) and 6.5% (+0.9/-0.8), respectively. The QPO frequencies increased marginally with count rate and the amplitudes showed a small increase with photon energy. On the basis of the appearance in the color-color and hardness-intensity diagrams, the low-frequency power spectrum, and the strength of the kHz QPOs, the system can be classified as an atoll source. The source showed five type I X-ray bursts. The distance to the source is estimated to be about 10 (5-15) kpc, which combined with the high Galactic latitude of 36.2 degrees indicates the source is a located in the Galactic halo. 
We have used the Fourier cross spectra of GRO J1719-24, as obtained with BATSE, to estimate the phase lags between the X-ray flux variations in the 20--50 and 50--100 keV energy bands as a function of Fourier frequency in the interval 0.002--0.488 Hz. Our analysis covers the entire ~80 day X-ray outburst of this black-hole candidate, following the first X-ray detection on 1993 September 25. The X-ray variations in the 50--100 keV band lag those in the 20--50 keV energy band by an approximately constant phase difference of 0.072 +/- 0.010 rad in the frequency interval 0.02--0.20 Hz. The peak phase lags in the interval 0.02--0.20 Hz are about twice those of Cyg X-1 and GRO J0422+32.These results are consistent with models for Comptonization regions composed of extended non-uniform clouds around the central source. 
The COMPTEL experiment aboard CGRO, exploring the previously unknown sky at MeV-energies, has so far detected 10 Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN): 9 blazars and the radio galaxy Centaurus A. No Seyfert galaxy has been found yet. With these results COMPTEL has opened the field of extragalactic Gamma-ray astronomy in the MeV-band. 
The 10 by 10 degrees region around dynamic center of our Galaxy is known to host a large number of bright X-ray sources, most of which are low mass binary systems. While high luminosity Z-sources are especially bright in the standard X-ray band (e.g. 2-10 keV), lower luminosity systems are dominating the flux above 30 keV. The two hardest sources in the region, i.e. 1E1740.7-2942 and GRS 1758-258 are thought to be black hole candidates (BHC) based on the similarity of spectral properties and short-term variability to that of dynamically proven BHCs. However, while most of the other galactic BHCs are known to be transients, these two objects could be considered persistent though variable sources. The persistent behavior of these sources implies some constraints on the parameters of the binary systems. Both sources were detected in the first GRANAT observation of the GC region. They are the only two persistent BHCs seen in the 35-75 keV SIGMA image after collecting several million seconds of exposure time over eight years, indicating that they are perhaps the only two persistent BHCs in the region.   Another peculiar object in the field is of course a putative supermassive black hole (Sgr A*) at the dynamic center of our Galaxy. The present day's X-ray luminosity from Sgr A* is very small ($\la 10^{36}$ erg/s). However an indication that Sgr A* might have been much brighter in the past was found while studying diffuse X-ray emission in the region. We speculate here on how future X-ray observatories may verify the hypothesis of the violent activity of Sgr A* in the past. 
A prediction for the energy shift of the synchrotron spectrum of flat-spectrum radio quasars (FSRQs) during high-energy flares is presented. If the $\gamma$-ray emission of FSRQs is produced by Comptonization of external radiation, then the peak of the synchrotron spectrum is predicted to move to lower energies in the flare state. This is opposite to the well-known broadband spectral behavior of high-frequency peaked BL-Lac objects where the external radiation field is believed to be weak and synchrotron-self Compton scattering might be the dominant $\gamma$-ray radiation mechanism. The synchrotron peak shift, if observed in FSRQs, can thus be used as a diagnostic to determine the dominant radiation mechanism in these objects. I suggest a few FSRQs as promising candidates to test the prediction of the external-Comptonization model. 
We investigate the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability occuring at the interface of a shear flow configuration in 2D compressible magnetohydrodynamics (MHD). The linear growth and the subsequent non-linear saturation of the instability are studied numerically. We consider an initial magnetic field aligned with the shear flow, and analyze the differences between cases where the initial field is unidirectional everywhere (uniform case), and where the field changes sign at the interface (reversed case). We recover and extend known results for pure hydrodynamic and MHD cases with a discussion of the dependence of the non-linear saturation on the wavenumber, the sound Mach number, and the Alfvenic Mach number for the MHD case.   A reversed field acts to destabilize the linear phase of the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability compared to the pure hydrodynamic case, while a uniform field suppresses its growth. In resistive MHD, reconnection events almost instantly accelerate the buildup of a global plasma circulation. They play an important role throughout the further non-linear evolution as well, since the initial current sheet gets amplified by the vortex flow and can become unstable to tearing instabilities forming magnetic islands. As a result, the saturation behaviour and the overall evolution of the density and the magnetic field is markedly different for the uniform versus the reversed field case. 
Radial pulsations of neutron stars and strange quark stars with nuclear crust are studied. The avoided crossing phenomenon occurring for the radial modes is found and discussed. Neutron star models are constructed using a realistic equation of state of dense matter and strange star models using a phenomenological bag model of quark matter. The eigenfrequencies of the three lowest modes of linear, adiabatic pulsations are calculated, using the relativistic equations for the radial oscillations. 
For two decades the hot big-bang model has been referred to as the standard cosmology -- and for good reason. For just as long cosmologists have known that there are fundamental questions that are not addressed by the standard cosmology and point to a grander theory. The best candidate for that grander theory is inflation + cold dark matter. It holds that the Universe is flat, that slowly moving elementary particles left over from the earliest moments provide the cosmic infrastructure, and that the primeval density inhomogeneities that seed all large-scale structure arose from quantum fluctuations. There is now prima facie evidence that supports two basic tenets of this paradigm, and an avalanche of high-quality cosmological observations will soon make this case stronger or will break it. Key questions remain to be answered; foremost among them are: identification and detection of the cold dark matter particles and elucidation of the mysterious dark-energy component. These are exciting times in cosmology! 
Misunderstandings have occurred regarding the conclusions of the paper by S. Arndt, W. Dappen and A. Nayfonov 1998, ApJ 498, 349. At occasions, its results were interpreted as if it had shown basic flaws in the general theory of dynamical screening. The aim of this comment is to emphasize in which connection the conclusions of the paper have to be understood in order to avoid misinterpretations. 
We stress the importance of Wolf-Rayet stars for the understanding of the AGN phenomenon in galaxies. WR stars provide an unique opportunity to explore from the ground whether non-thermal nuclear activity and circumnuclear starbursts are connected. We review the known reported WR signatures observed so far in AGNs and point out some intrincacies related to the analysis of the spectra, linked to reddening correction, the origin of the Hbeta line, etc. Finally, we advocate that integral field spectroscopy is a very promising tool to study this problem and present preliminary results of a long-term project that have been obtained at the CFHT in 1998. 
We present the linear inverse redshift space operator which maps the galaxy density field derived from redshift surveys from redshift space to real space. Expressions are presented for observers in both the CMBR and Local Group rest frames. We show how these results can be generalised to flux--limited galaxy redshift surveys. These results allow the straightforward reconstruction of real space density and velocity fields without resort to iterative or numerically intensive inverse methods. As a corollary to the inversion of the density in the Local Group rest frame we present an expression for estimating the real space velocity dipole from redshift space, allowing one to estimate the Local Group dipole without full reconstruction of the redshift survey. We test these results on some simple models and find the reconstruction is very accurate. A new spherical harmonic representation of the redshift distortion and its inverse is developed, which simplifies the reconstruction and allows analytic calculation of the properties of the reconstructed redshift survey. We use this representation to analyse the uncertainties in the reconstruction of the density and velocity fields from redshift space, due to only a finite volume being available. Both sampling and shot-noise variance terms are derived and we discuss the limits of reconstruction analysis. We compare the reconstructed velocity field with the true velocity field and show that reconstruction in the Local Group rest frame is preferable, since this eliminates the major source of uncertainty from the dipole mode. These results can be used to transform redshift surveys to real space and may be used as part of a full likelihood analysis to extract cosmological parameters. 
We investigate the galactic axes orientations within 18 selected clusters, sub-structures of the Local Supercluster. For every cluster we map the parameter \Delta_{11} (Flin & God{\l}owski 1986) describing the galactic axes alignment with respect to a cluster pole changing along the entire celestial sphere. The resulting maps are analyzed for correlations of its maxima with directions from the cluster centre to 1.) the derived `physical' cluster poles, 2.) the Local Supercluster centre, 3.) the Virgo A centre and 4.) the Earth, i.e. along the line of sight (LOS). The strong maxima - with one exception - exist only for non-spiral (NS) sub-samples, with the maximum well correlated with the LOS direction. For clusters with a clearly defined weak maximum the conclusion generally does not change. For the spiral (S) sub-samples the maps are usually at the random noise level. In these cases a weaker, but still existent correlation with the LOS is observed and no other evident correlations are noted. We conclude that the strong systematic effect, generated by the process of galactic axis de-projection from its optical image, is present in the catalogue data. With the use of a simple model for the systematic effect we are able to reproduce the main characteristic features of the maps for NS galaxies. We note, however, a few clusters showing significant differences with respect to this model. 
The second part of the First Byurakan Survey is aimed at detecting all bright (B<16.5) UV-excess starlike objects in a large area of the sky. By comparison with other major surveys such as the ROSAT All Sky Survey, the ROSAT WGACAT catalogue of point sources, the IRAS survey, the 6cm Green Bank, the 1.4GHz NRAO VLA and the 92cm Westerbork Northern sky surveys and with the catalogue of mean UBV data on stars, we estimate the number of AGNs present in the FBS survey and its completeness.   We have made spectroscopic observations of nine of the most promising FBS candidates. We have found six new QSOs bringing the total number of known QSOs in this survey to 42.   By comparison with the Bright Quasar Survey, we found that the completeness of this last survey is of the order of 70% rather than 30-50% as suggested by several authors. 
The Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) satellite was launched on 30 December 1995. It has made substantial contributions pertaining to compact objects and their environs. Broad-band spectral and short-time-scale temporal studies are exploring the effects of General Relativity in the regime of strong gravity. We present a brief outline of the principal contributions and then give a general overview of two new areas of x-ray astronomy that have proven by RXTE to be very fruitful: accreting neutron stars with millisecond spin periods and microquasars. The former pertains to the spin evolution of low-mass x-ray binaries and the equations of state of neutron stars while the latter is lends insight to disk-jet interactions in galactic black-hole binary systems. 
We present a new catalogue of 406 dense cores optically selected by using the STScI Digitized Sky Survey (DSS). In this catalogue 306 cores have neither an Embedded YSO (EYSO) nor a Pre-Main-Sequence (PMS) star, 94 cores have EYSOs (1 core has both an EYSO and a PMS star), and 6 cores have PMS star only. Our sample of dense cores in the catalogue is fairly complete within a category of northern Lynds class 5, 6 clouds, and southern Hartley et al. (1986)'s class A clouds, providing a database useful for the systematic study of dense cores. Most of the cores listed in the catalogue have diameters between $0.05 - 0.36$ pc with a mean of $\sim 0.24$ pc. The sizes ($\sim 0.33$ pc in the mean) of cores with EYSOs are found to be usually larger than the sizes ($\sim 0.22 $ pc in the mean) of starless cores. The typical mean gas density of the cores is $\sim7\times 10^3 cm^{-3}$. Most of the cores are more likely elongated than spherical (mean aspect ratio: $\sim 2.4$). The ratio of the number of cores with EYSOs to the number of starless cores for our sample is about 0.3, suggesting that the typical lifetime of starless cores is $0.3-1.6$ Myr, about 3 times longer than the duration of the Class 0 and Class I phases. This lifetime is shorter than expected from models of ambipolar diffusion, by factors of 2-44. 
We discuss optical (HST/WFPC2 F555W) and radio (15 GHz VLA) polarimetry observations of the M87 jet taken during 1994-1995. Many knot regions are very highly polarized ($\sim 40-50%$, approaching the theoretical maximum for optically thin synchrotron radiation), suggesting highly ordered magnetic fields. High degrees of polarization are also observed in interknot regions.   While the optical and radio polarization maps share many similarities, we observe significant differences between the radio and optical polarized structures, particularly for bright knots in the inner jet, giving us important insight into the jet's radial structure. Unlike in the radio, the optical magnetic field position angle becomes perpendicular to the jet at the upstream ends of knots HST-1, D, E and F. Moreover, the optical polarization decreases markedly at the position of the flux maxima in these knots. In contrast, the magnetic field position angle observed in the radio remains parallel to the jet in most of these regions, and the decreases in radio polarization are smaller. More minor differences are seen in other jet regions. Many of the differences between optical and radio polarimetry results can be explained in terms of a model whereby shocks occur in the jet interior, where higher-energy electrons are concentrated and dominate both polarized and unpolarized emissions in the optical, while the radio maps show strong contributions from lower-energy electrons in regions with {\bf B} parallel, near the jet surface. 
We present U, B and V light curves (taken from the literature) of the low mass X-ray binary Cygnus X-2. The ``lower envelope'' of the light curves folded on the orbital period are ellipsoidal. We fit an ellipsoidal model to the lower envelopes of the B and V light curves to derive inclination constraints. If we assume the accretion disc is steady-state where its radial temperature profile goes as T(r) \propto r^{-3/4}, we find an inclination of i = 62.5 +/- 4 deg. However, the predicted ratio of the disc flux to the total flux in B (the ``disc fraction'') is larger than what is observed (about 0.55 compared to < 0.3). If we use a flatter radial temperature profile of the disc expected for strongly irradiated discs (T(r) \propto r^{-3/7}), then we find an inclination of i = 54.6 deg and a disc fraction in B of approximately 0.30. However, in this case the value of chi^2 is much larger (48.4 with 36 degrees of freedom compared to 40.9 for the steady-state case). Adopting i = 62.5 +/- 4 deg and using a previous determination of the mass ratio (q = M_c/M_x = 0.34 +/- 0.04) and the optical mass function (f(M) = 0.69 +/- 0.03 solar masses), we find that the mass of the neutron star is M_x = 1.78 +/- 0.23 solar masses and the mass of the secondary star is M_c = 0.60 +/- 0.13 solar masses. We derive a distance of d = 7.2 +/- 1.1 kpc, which is significantly smaller than a recent distance measurement of d = 11.6 +/- 0.3 kpc derived from an observation of a type I radius-expansion X-ray burst, but consistent with earlier distance estimates. (abridged) 
The nature of the Massive Compact Halo objects seen in microlensing experiments and interpreted as dark matter in the Halo of our Galaxy remains a mystery. Arguments are presented that these events are probably not ordinary stellar or substellar objects, i.e., they are probably not faint stars, brown dwarfs, white dwarfs, or neutron stars. On theoretical grounds one is then pushed to either exotic explanations or a "no-Macho" Halo (in which the Machos reside elsewhere than in the Halo). Indeed a nonbaryonic component in the Halo seems to be required. 
The three-dimensional distribution of astronomical objects observed in redshift space significantly differs from the true distribution since the distance to each object cannot be determined by its redshift $z$ only; for $z \ll 1$ the peculiar velocity field contaminates the true recession velocity of the Hubble flow, while the true distance for objects at $z < 1$ sensitively depends on the (unknown and thus assumed) cosmological parameters. This hampers the effort to understand the true distribution of large-scale structure of the universe. In addition, all cosmological observations are carried out on a light-cone, the null hypersurface of an observer at $z=0$. This implies that their intrinsic properties and clustering statistics should change even within the survey volume. Therefore a proper comparison taking account of the light-cone effect is important to extract any cosmological information from redshift catalogues, especially for $z < 1$. We present recent theoretical development on the two effects -- the cosmological light-cone effect and the cosmological redshift-space distortion -- which should play key roles in observational cosmology in the 21st century. 
At present three pulsars are known which clearly show a strongly increasing degree of circular polarization with frequency. As this is accompanied by a smooth decrease of linear polarization, we investigate, if this observation can be explained through a propagation mode transition from linear to circular polarization. Using a previously published model we find that the rate of change of the polarization types with frequency is well consistent with the theory. The small number of only three objects does of course not allow to draw a general conclusion for the whole sample of pulsars. However we show that the very unusual behavior of these three objects can be well explained with this model and we discuss, why only so few such objects are presently known. 
We present an evolutionary stellar population synthesis model which predicts SED's for simple stellar populations, SSP's, at ~2A resolution in the visible. The input database is composed of ~550 stars, selected from the spectral library of Jones. This is the first time that an evolutionary model employs such an extensive empirical stellar spectral library, at such high resolution. A SSP spectral library with -0.7<[Fe/H]<+0.2 is provided, as well as an extensive discussion about the Lick system of indices at intermediate resolution, showing the advantages of using the new model predictions. It is shown the Rose indices, at higher resolution, as a function of the age and metallicity of the stellar population. The SSP spectra, with flux-calibrated response curve, can be smoothed to the same resolution of the data, or to the galaxy internal velocity dispersion, allowing us to analyze the observed spectrum in its own system. Therefore we are able to utilize all the information contained in the data, at their spectral resolution. After performing this step, the entire observational spectrum can be compared at once, or the analysis can be done measuring a particular set of features in the two, the synthesized and the observational spectrum, rather than trying to correct the latter from broadening or instrumental effects. The SSP spectra were calibrated with two metal-rich GC's, 47Tuc and NGC 6624, providing excellent fits and being able to detect well known spectral peculiarities such as 47Tuc CN anomaly. The model was confronted to an early-type galaxy, NGC 3379, revealing its well known Mg/Fe over-abundance, and showing how appropriate are the new model predictions, as well as the way in which they can be used, for studying elemental ratios in these systems. 
Two new bright X-ray sources in globular clusters, and many less luminous ones in globular clusters and in old open clusters, have been discovered with ROSAT. Accurate positions obtained with ROSAT help identification with optical objects, which however is still very incomplete in globular clusters. One dim globular cluster source has been identified with a recycled radio pulsar; several others may be cataclysmic variables. The four brightest X-ray sources identified in the old open cluster M67 are puzzling, as we do not understand why they emit X-rays. In comparison with the two old open clusters studied so far, globular clusters are remarkably underluminous in X-rays. 
The gamma-ray detector AGILE, operating in the energy range from 30 MeV to 50 GeV, is composed by a tracking part, a light calorimeter and an anticoincidence system. Here we describe the detector and its capabilities to determine the arrival direction and energy of the detected photons. 
The emission of axions from supernovae is an interesting possibility to account for the Gamma-Ray Bursts provided their energy can be effectively converted into electromagnetic energy elsewhere. The connection between supernova and gamma-ray bursts has been recently confirmed by the observed correlation between the burst of April 25, 1998 and the supernova SN1998bw. We argue that the axion convertion into photons can be more efficient if one considers the coupling between an intermediate scale axion and the string theory dilaton along with the inclusion of string loops. We also discuss the way dilaton dynamics may allow for a more effective energy exchange with electromagnetic radiation in the expansion process of fireballs. 
I propose a modification of the spherical infall model for the evolution of density fluctuations with initially Gaussian probability distribution and scale-free power spectra in Einstein-de Sitter universe as developed by Hoffman & Shaham. I introduce a generalized form of the initial density distribution around an overdense region and cut it off at half the inter-peak separation accounting in this way for the presence of the neighbouring fluctuations. Contrary to the original predictions of Hoffman & Shaham the resulting density profiles within virial radii no longer have power-law shape but their steepness increases with distance. The profiles of halos of galactic mass are well fitted by the universal profile formula of changing slope obtained as a result of N-body simulations by Navarro, Frenk & White. The trend of steeper profiles for smaller masses and higher spectral indices is also reproduced. The agreement between the model and simulations is better for smaller masses and lower spectral indices which suggests that galaxies form mainly by accretion while formation of clusters involves merging. 
We developed a non-linear Monte Carlo code based on the LP method proposed by Stern et al (1995). We use it to simulate an extended non-thermal X/gamma ray source coupled with a cold accretion disk. The source radiates by inverse Compton process.   We show that very low optical depths are required for the 2nd Compton order to be negligible. Such optical depths can be reached only if the source is very close to the disk (corona-like geometries). And even in this configuration, 2nd Compton order is negligible only for the hardest observed spectral slopes. We also account for Compton reflection on the disk. This kind of coupling leads to a strongly angle dependent spectrum with a reflection component much stronger than in standard isotropic models, leading to unobserved reflection dominated spectra at low inclination. 
Building on the success of the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, the Gamma-ray Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST) will make a major step in the study of such subjects as blazars, gamma-ray bursts, the search for dark matter, supernova remnants, pulsars, diffuse radiation, and unidentified high-energy sources. The instrument will be built on new and mature detector technologies such as silicon strip detectors, low-power low-noise LSI, and a multilevel data acquisition system. GLAST is in the research and development phase, and one full tower (of 25 total) is now being built in collaborating institutes. The prototype tower will be tested thoroughly at SLAC in the fall of 1999. 
We review recent results of stellar pulsation modelling that show that even very simple one-dimensional models for time dependent turbulent energy diffusion and convection provide a substantial improvement over purely radiative models. 
We measure the redshift-space power spectrum P(k) for the recently completed IRAS Point Source Catalogue (PSC) redshift survey, which contains 14500 galaxies over 84% of the sky with 60 micron flux >= 0.6 Jansky. Comparison with simulations shows that our estimated errors on P(k) are realistic, and that systematic errors due to the finite survey volume are small for wavenumbers k >~ 0.03 h Mpc^-1. At large scales our power spectrum is intermediate between those of the earlier QDOT and 1.2 Jansky surveys, but with considerably smaller error bars; it falls slightly more steeply to smaller scales. We have fitted families of CDM-like models using the Peacock-Dodds formula for non-linear evolution; the results are somewhat sensitive to the assumed small-scale velocity dispersion \sigma_V. Assuming a realistic \sigma_V \approx 300 km/s yields a shape parameter \Gamma ~ 0.25 and normalisation b \sigma_8 ~ 0.75; if \sigma_V is as high as 600 km/s then \Gamma = 0.5 is only marginally excluded. There is little evidence for any `preferred scale' in the power spectrum or non-Gaussian behaviour in the distribution of large-scale power. 
The VLBA and the VLA have been used to image the continuum radio emission from Mrk 231, a Seyfert 1 galaxy and the brightest infrared galaxy in the local universe. The smallest scales reveal a double source less than 2 pc in extent. The components of this central source have minimum brightness temperatures of 10^9 to 10^{10} K, spectral turnovers between 2 and 10 GHz, and appear to define the galaxy nucleus plus the inner regions of a jet. The components may be free-free absorbed or synchtrotron self-absorbed.   On larger scales, the images confirm a previously known north-south triple source extending 40 pc and elongated perpendicular to a 350-pc starburst disk. Both lobes show evidence for free-free absorption near 2 GHz, probably due to ionized gas with a density of 1-2 X 10^3 cm^{-3} in the innermost parts of the starburst disk. The absorbing gas may be ionized by the active nucleus or by local regions of enhanced star formation. The elongation of the 40-pc triple differs by 65 deg from that of the 2-pc source. The different symmetry axes on different scales imply strong curvature in the inner part of the radio jet.   The radio continuum from the 350-pc disk has a spectral index near -0.4 above 1.4 GHz and is plausibly energized by a massive burst of star formation. On VLA scales, asymmetric and diffuse emission extends for more than 25 kpc. This emission has a steep spectrum, linear polarization exceeding 50% at some locations, and shares the symmetry axis of the 40-pc triple. The diffuse radio source is probably generated by energy deposition from a slow-moving nuclear jet, which conceivably could help energize the off-nuclear starburst as well. 
We investigate weak lensing by large-scale structure using ray tracing through N-body simulations. Photon trajectories are followed through high resolution simulations of structure formation to make simulated maps of shear and convergence on the sky. Tests with varying numerical parameters are used to calibrate the accuracy of computed lensing statistics on angular scales from about 1 arcminute to a few degrees. Various aspects of the weak lensing approximation are also tested. For fields a few degrees on a side the shear power spectrum is almost entirely in the nonlinear regime and agrees well with nonlinear analytical predictions. Sampling fluctuations in power spectrum estimates are investigated by comparing several ray tracing realizations of a given model. For survey areas smaller than a degree on a side the main source of scatter is nonlinear coupling to modes larger than the survey. We develop a method which uses this effect to estimate the mass density parameter Omega from the scatter in power spectrum estimates for subregions of a larger survey. We show that the power spectrum can be measured accurately from realistically noisy data on scales corresponding to 1-10 Mpc/h. Non-Gaussian features in the one point distribution function of the weak lensing convergence (reconstructed from the shear) are also sensitive to Omega. We suggest several techniques for estimating Omega in the presence of noise and compare their statistical power, robustness and simplicity. With realistic noise Omega can be determined to within 0.1-0.2 from a deep survey of several square degrees. 
The soft X-ray nova GRS 1739-278 flared up in 1996 near the Galactic center. We present the observations of this interesting source, a black-hole candidate, with the instruments on board the Mir-Kvant module and the RXTE satellite. The TTM data allow the spectrum of the X-ray nova to be studied during the rise in its brightness. The source's spectrum in this period is satisfactorily described by a power law with a gradually increasing index. The RXTE spectra after the source passed its maximum brightness have the appearance that is typical of the high and ultrahigh states of black-hole candidates; they are described by a two-component model. The broad-band spectra of the source are discussed in terms of the processes that proceed near an accreting black hole in a binary system. 
Mergers of compact objects may lead to different astrophysical phenomena: they may provide sources of observable gravitational radiation, and also may be connected with gamma-ray bursts. Estimate of the rate with which such mergers take place are based on assumptions about various parameters describing the binary evolution. The distribution of one of these parameters - the kick velocity a neutron star receives at birth will strongly influence the number and orbital parameters of compact objects binaries. We calculate these effect using population synthesis of binary stars and show that the expected compact object merger rate changes by a factor of 30 when the kick velocity varies within its current observational bounds. 
(abridged) We present a study of the nature and evolution of large-scale structure based on two independent redshift surveys of faint field galaxies conducted with the 176-fiber Norris Spectrograph on the Palomar 200-inch telescope. The two surveys together sparsely cover ~20 sq. degrees and contain 835 r < 21 mag galaxies with redshifts 0.2 < z < 0.5. Both surveys have a median redshift of z = 0.30. In order to obtain a rough estimate of the cosmic variance, we analyze the two surveys independently. We measure the comoving correlation length to be 3.70 +/- 0.13 h^-1 Mpc at z = 0.30 with a power-law slope gamma = 1.77 +/- 0.05. Dividing the sample into low (0.2 < z < 0.3) and high (0.32 < z < 0.5) redshift intervals, we see no evidence for a change in the comoving correlation length over the redshift range 0.2 < z < 0.5. Similar to the well-established results in the local universe, we find that intrinsically bright galaxies are more strongly clustered than intrinsically faint galaxies and that galaxies with little ongoing star formation, as judged from the rest-frame equivalent width of the [OII]3727, are more strongly clustered than galaxies with significant ongoing star formation. The rest-frame pairwise velocity dispersion of the sample is 326^+67_-52 km s^-1, ~25% lower than typical values measured locally. The appearance of the galaxy distribution, particularly in the more densely sampled Abell 104 field, is quite striking. The pattern of sheets and voids which has been observed locally continues at least to z ~ 0.5. A friends-of-friends analysis of the galaxy distribution supports the visual impression that > 90% of all galaxies at z < 0.5 are part of larger structures with overdensities of > 5. 
We study the power spectrum of the mass density perturbations in an inflation scenario that includes thermal dissipation. We show that the condition on which the thermal fluctuations dominate the primordial density perturbations can easily be realized even for weak dissipation, i.e., the rate of dissipation is less than the Hubble expansion. We find that our spectrum of primordial density perturbations follows a power law behavior, and exhibits a ``thermodynamical'' feature -- the amplitude and power index of the spectrum depend mainly on the thermodynamical variable $M$, the inflation energy scale. Comparing this result with the observed temperature fluctuations of the cosmic microwave background, we find that both amplitude and index of the power spectrum can be fairly well fitted if $M \sim 10^{15}-10^{16}$ GeV. 
We present a new observation of the compact HII region, G29.96-0.02, that allows us to compare the velocity structure in the ionised gas and surrounding molecular gas directly. This allows us to remove most of the remaining ambiguity about the nature of this source. In particular, the comparison of the velocity structure present in the 4S-3P HeI lines with that found in the 1-0 S(1) of molecular hydrogern convincingly rules out a bow shock as being important to the kinematics of this source. Our new observation therefore agrees with our previous conclusion, drawn from a velocity resolved HI Br gamma map, that most of the velocity structure in G29.96-0.02 can largely be explained as a result of a champagne flow model. We also find that the best simple model must invoke a powerful stellar wind to evacuate the `head' of the cometary HII region of ionised gas. However, residual differences between model and data tend to indicate that no single simple model can adequately explain all the observed features. 
We model, via Monte Carlo simulations, the distribution of observed U-B, B-V, V-I galaxy colors in the range 1.75<z<5 caused by variations in the line-of-sight opacity due to neutral hydrogen (HI). We also include HI internal to the source galaxies. Even without internal HI absorption, comparison of the distribution of simulated colors to the analytic approximations of Madau (1995) and Madau et al (1996) reveals systematically different mean colors and scatter. Differences arise in part because we use more realistic distributions of column densities and Doppler parameters. However, there are also mathematical problems of applying mean and standard deviation opacities, and such application yields unphysical results. These problems are corrected using our Monte Carlo approach. Including HI absorption internal to the galaxies generaly diminishes the scatter in the observed colors at a given redshift, but for redshifts of interest this diminution only occurs in the colors using the bluest band-pass. Internal column densities < 10^17 cm^2 do not effect the observed colors, while column densities > 10^18 cm^2 yield a limiting distribution of high redshift galaxy colors. As one application of our analysis, we consider the sample completeness as a function of redshift for a single spectral energy distribution (SED) given the multi-color selection boundaries for the Hubble Deep Field proposed by Madau et al (1996). We argue that the only correct procedure for estimating the z>3 galaxy luminosity function from color-selected samples is to measure the (observed) distribution of redshifts and intrinsic SED types, and then consider the variation in color for each SED and redshift. A similar argument applies to the estimation of the luminosity function of color-selected, high redshift QSOs. 
In addition to constructing a Galactic matter mass function free from the bias induced by the hydrogen-burning limit, gravitational microlensing allows one to construct a mass function which is less affected by the problem of unresolved binaries (Gaudi & Gould). However, even with the method of microlensing, the photometric detection of binaries is limited to binary systems with relatively large separations of $b\gtrsim 0.4$ of their combined Einstein ring radius, and thus the mass function is still not totally free from the problem of unresolved binaries. In this paper, we show that by detecting distortions of the astrometric ellipse of a microlensing event with high precision instruments such as the {\it Space Interferometry Mission}, one can detect close binaries at a much higher rate than by the photometric method. We find that by astrometrically observing microlensing events, $\sim 50%$ of binaries with separations of $0.1r_{\rm E}$ can be detected with the detection threshold of 3%. The proposed astrometric method is especially efficient at detecting very close binaries. With a detection threshold of 3% and a rate of 10%, one can astrometrically detect binaries with separations down to $\sim 0.01r_{\rm E}$. 
Based on the Monte Carlo simulations we have studied the performance of the HEGRA system of imaging air Cherenkov telescopes (IACTs) in its present configuration of 4 IACTs as well as in its future final configuration of 5 IACTs. Here we present the results on the basic characteristics of the IACT system which are used in the standard data analysis procedure, i.e., the collection areas, the detection rates, the angular resolution, the energy resolution, and the gamma/hadron-separation efficiency. By comparing several key Monte Carlo predictions with experimental results it is possible to check the accuracy of the simulations. The Monte Carlo results concerning hadron-nuclear showers are tested with the recorded cosmic ray events and the results concerning photon-induced showers are tested with a large data sample of gamma-rays observed from BL Lac object Mkn 501 during its high flaring activity in 1997. Summarizing the simulations and current observations we give the basic recommendations of using the instrument and the major values of its sensitivity. 
We report here on a calculation of thermalization time-scale of the two temperature advection dominated accretion flow (ADAF) model. It is established that time required to equalize the electron and ion temperatures via electron-ion collisions in the ADAF with plausible physical parameters greatly exceeds age of the Universe, which corroborates validity one of the crucial assumptions of the ADAF model, namely the existence of a hot two temperature plasma. This work is motivated by the recent success (Mahadevan 1998a,b) of ADAF model in explaining the emitted spectrum of Sgr A*. 
We have studied the effects of the interaction between the radio jet and the ambient gas in the powerful radio galaxy PKS2250-41 (z=0.31). Our results show that the gas has been accelerated, compressed, heated and collisionally ionized by the shock. This study helps us to understand the processes which determine the observed properties of many high redshift radio galaxies. 
A new low-dispersion objective-prism search for low-redshift (z<0.045) emission-line galaxies (ELG) has been carried out by the Universidad Complutense de Madrid with the Schmidt Telescope at the Calar-Alto Observatory. This is a continuation of the UCM Survey, which was performed by visual selection of candidates in photographic plates via the presence of the Halpha+[NII]6584 blend in emission. In this new list we have applied an automatic procedure, fully developed by us, for selecting and analyzing the ELG candidates on the digitized images obtained with the MAMA machine. The analyzed region of the sky covers 189 square degrees in nine fields near R.A.=14h & 17h, Dec=25 deg. The final sample contains 113 candidates. Special effort has been made to obtain a large amount of information directly from our uncalibrated plates by using several external calibrations. The parameters obtained for the ELG candidates allow for the study of the statistical properties for the sample. 
The BeppoSAX Narrow Field Instruments observed the galactic source GS1826-238 in October 1997, following a hard X-ray outburst with a peak flux of about 100 mCrab detected by BATSE. Two short X-ray bursts (about 150 s) were detected up to 60 keV, with larger amplitude and duration at lower energies(up to a factor 20 times the persistent emission). This confirms the proposed identification of the source as a weakly magnetized neutron star in a LMXRB system. For both persistent and burst states, the spectrum in the 0.4-100 keV energy range is well fitted by an absorbed blackbody, plus a flat power-law with an exponential cutoff at 50 keV. 
We report results on the QSO 3C345 obtained from VLBA observations carried out on epochs 1995.84, 1996.41, and 1996.81, at 22, 15, 8.4 and 5 GHz. Total and polarized images VLBI images were obtained. We observed superluminal motions of components C8 and C7 with respect to the core component D. We imaged also the remarkably complex polarization structure near the core. 
High S/N ratio spectra have been obtained at CFHT at a spectral resolution of 100 000 for HD 84397 and two other metal poor stars.   For HD 84 937, the S/N of 650 per pixel was obtained, yielding Li-6/Li-7 = 0.052 with a sigma of 0.019. The Li-6 abundance is compared with recent models of formation of light elements LiBeB. This comparison shows that Li-6 is either undepleted or only moderatly depleted in the star of interest. The depletion of Li-7 in this star is estimated to be less than 0.1 dex. The abundance of lithium on the Spite plateau accordingly can be takien as representative of the cosmological primordial lithium. See the joint paper astro-ph/9811327. 
We generate bolometric light curves for a variety of type Ia supernova models at late times, simulating gamma-ray and positron transport for various assumptions about the magnetic field and ionization of the ejecta. These calculated light curve shapes are compared with light curves of specific supernovae for which there have been adequate late observations. %The selection of models is generally not based upon the %ability to fit the late observations, but rather because the %model has been demonstrated by other authors to approximate the spectra %and early light curves of that specific SN.   From these comparisons we draw two conclusions: whether a suggested model is an acceptable approximation of a particular event, and, given that it is, the magnetic field characteristics and degree of ionization that are most consistent with the observed light curve shape. For the ten SNe included in this study, five strongly suggest $^{56}$Co positron escape as would be permitted by a weak or radially-combed magnetic field. Of the remaining five SNe, none clearly show the upturned light curve expected for positron trapping in a strong, tangled magnetic field. Chandrasekhar mass models can explain normally, sub-, and super- luminous supernova light curves; sub-Chandrasekhar mass models have difficulties with sub- (and potentially normally) luminous SNe. An estimate of the galactic positron production rate from type Ia SNe is compared with gamma-ray observations of Galactic 511 keV annihilation radiation. Additionally, we emphasize the importance of correctly treating the positron transport for calculations of spectra, or any properties, of type Ia SNe at late epochs ($\geq$ 200 d). 
The model of the universe is considered in which background of the universe is not defined by the matter but is a priori specified as a homogenous and isotropic flat space. The scale factor of the universe follows the linear law. The scale of mass changes proportional to the scale factor. This leads to that the universe has the fractal structure with a power index of 2. 
We show how the interplay of non-linear dynamics, self-gravity, and fluctuations leads to self-affine behavior of matter density correlations quite generically, i.e., with a power-law exponent whose value does not depend in a very direct way on the specific details of the dynamics. This we do by means of the Renormalization Group, a powerful analytic tool for extracting asymptotic behavior of many-body systems 
We present Cu and Ba abundances for 7 G-K dwarf stars, members of the solar-metallicity, 0.3 Gyr old Ursa Major Moving Group. All analyzed member stars show [Ba/Fe] excesses of +0.3-plus, associated with [Cu/Fe] deficiencies of up to -0.23 dex. The present results suggest that there is an anti-correlation between the abundances of Cu and the heavy elements produced by the main component of the neutron capture s-process. Other possible anomalies are Na and C deficiencies with respect to normal solar-metallicity stars. The new data do not confirm the recent claim that the group member HR6094 is a Ba dwarf star. 
Quasars representative of the populous faint end of the luminosity function are frustratingly dim with m~24 at intermediate redshift; moreover groundbased surveys for such faint QSOs suffer substantial morphological contamination by compact galaxies having similar colors. In order to establish a more reliable ultrafaint QSO sample, we used the APO 3.5-m telescope to take deep groundbased U-band CCD images in fields previously imaged in V,I with WFPC2/HST. Our approach hence combines multicolor photometry with the 0.1" spatial resolution of HST, to establish a morphological and multicolor survey for QSOs extending about 2 magnitudes fainter than most extant groundbased surveys. We present results for the "Groth-Westphal Strip", in which we identify 10 high likelihood UV-excess candidates having stellar or stellar-nucleus+galaxy morphology in WFPC2. For m(606)<24.0 (roughly B<24.5) the surface density of such QSO candidates is 420 (+180,-130) per square degree, or a surface density of 290 (+160,-110) per square degree with an additional V-I cut that may further exclude compact emission line galaxies. Even pending confirming spectroscopy, the observed surface density of QSO candidates is already low enough to yield interesting comparisons: our measures agree extremely well with the predictions of several recent luminosity function models. 
Dissipative effects during neutrino decoupling in the early universe create a small backreaction on the Hubble rate, and lead to a small rise in temperature and entropy. We use a simplified thermo-hydrodynamic model, which provides a causal approximation to kinetic theory, in order to estimate the backreaction effects and the entropy production. 
Weak lensing leads to the non-Gaussian magnification distribution of standard candles at given redshift $z$, $p(\mu|z)$. In this paper, we give accurate and simple empirical fitting formulae of the weak lensing numerical simulation results with the generalized Dyer-Roeder prescription. The smoothness parameter $\tilde{\alpha}$ essentially represents the amount of matter that can cause magnification of a given source. Since matter distribution in our universe is inhomogeneous, we can think of our universe as a mosaic of cones centered on the observer, each with a different value of $\tilde{\alpha}$. We define the {\it direction dependent} smoothness parameter $\tilde{\alpha}$ via the Dyer-Roeder equation; there is a unique mapping between $\tilde{\alpha}$ and the magnification of a source. We find that the distribution of $\tilde{\alpha}$ at given $z$, $p(\tilde{\alpha}|z)$, is well described by a modified Gaussian distribution. For the same matter distribution, i.e., the same $p(\tilde{\alpha}|z)$, different values of $\Omega_m$ and $\Omega_{\Lambda}$ can lead to very different magnification distributions.   Our formulae can be conveniently used to calculate the weak lensing effects for observed Type Ia supernovae at arbitrary redshifts. 
Residual velocity dispersion in cold dark matter induces stresses which lead to effects that are absent in the idealized dust model. A previous Newtonian analysis showed how this approach can provide a theoretical foundation for the phenomenological adhesion model. We develop a relativistic kinetic theory generalization which also incorporates the anisotropic velocity dispersion that will typically be present. In addition to density perturbations, we consider the rotational and shape distortion properties of clustering. These quantities together characterize the linear development of density inhomogeneity, and we find exact solutions for their evolution. As expected, the corrections are small and arise only in the decaying modes, but their effect is interesting. One of the modes for density perturbations decays less rapidly than the standard decaying mode. The new rotational mode generates precession of the axis of rotation. The new shape modes produce additional distortion that remains frozen in during the subsequent (linear) evolution, despite the rapid decay of the terms that caused it. 
We use the difference (delta) between the position angles of the nuclear radio emission and the host galaxy major axis to investigate the distribution of the angle (beta) between the axes of the nuclear accretion disk and the host galaxy disk in Seyfert galaxies. We provide a critical appraisal of the quality of all measurements, and find that the data are limited by observational uncertainties and biases, such as the well known deficiency of Seyfert galaxies of high inclination. There is weak evidence that the distribution of delta for Seyfert 2 galaxies may be different (at the 90% confidence level) from a uniform distribution, while the Seyfert 1 delta distribution is not significantly different from a uniform distribution or from the Seyfert 2 delta distribution. The cause of the possible non-uniformity in the distribution of delta for Seyfert 2 galaxies is discussed. Seyfert nuclei in late-type spiral galaxies may favor large values of delta (at the ~96% confidence level), while those in early-type galaxies show a more or less random distribution of delta. This may imply that the nuclear accretion disk in non-interacting late-type spirals tends to align with the stellar disk, while that in early-type galaxies is more randomly oriented, perhaps as a result of accretion following a galaxy merger.   We point out that biases in the distribution of inclination translate to biased estimates of beta in the context of the unified scheme. When this effect is taken into account, the distributions of beta for all Seyferts together, and of Seyfert 1's and 2's separately, agree with the hypothesis that the radio jets are randomly oriented with respect to the galaxy disk. The data are consistent with the expectations of the unified scheme, but do not demand it. 
In this paper we discuss possible ultra high energy ($\ge$ TeV) neutrino emission from Supernova Remnants (SNRs), specifically the hadronic gamma ray production models. Recent very high energy (VHE) $\gamma$ ray observation from SNRs is the main motivation behind this study. 
Spectra of Seyfert Is are commonly modelled as emission from an X-ray illuminated flat accretion disc orbiting a central black hole. This provides both a reprocessed and direct component of the X-ray emission as required by observations of individual objects and possibly a fraction of the cosmological X-ray background. There is some observational motivation to at least consider the role that an effectively concave disc surface might play: (1) a reprocessed fraction $\gsim 1/2$ in some Seyferts and possibly in the X-ray background, and (2) the commonality of a sharp iron line peak for Seyferts at 6.4KeV despite a dependence of peak location on inclination angle for flat disc models. Here it is shown that a concave disc may not only provide a larger total fraction of reprocessed photons, but can also reprocess a much larger fraction of photons in its outer regions when compared to a flat disc. This reduces the sensitivity of the 6.4KeV peak location to the inner disc inclination angle because the outer regions are less affected by Doppler and gravitational effects. If the X-ray source is isotropic, the reprocessed fraction is directly determined by the concavity. If the X-ray source is anisotropic, the location of iron line peak can still be determined by concavity but the total reflected fraction need not be as large as for the isotropic emitter case. The geometric calculations herein are applicable to general accretion disc systems illuminated from the center. 
We consider the role of a propagation effect such as the stimulated Raman scattering on the polarization of radio pulses. When an intense electromagnetic wave with frequency close to the plasma frequency interacts with the plasma in the pulsar magnetosphere, the incident wave undergoes stimulated Raman scattering. Using typical plasma and magnetic field parameters, we compute the growth rate and estimate the polarization properties of the scattered mode. At some conditions, we find that the polarization properties of the scattered mode can become significantly different from those of the incident wave. The frequencies, at which strong Raman scattering occurs in the outer parts of magnetosphere, fall into the observed radio band.   In some pulsars, for example, PSR B0628-28 and 1914+13, a large and symmetric type of circular polarization has been observed. We propose that such an unusual circular polarization is produced by the propagation effects. 
We report the first near infrared (NIR) imaging of a circumstellar annular disk around the young (~8 Myr), Vega-like star, HR 4796A. NICMOS coronagraph observations at 1.1 and 1.6 microns reveal a ring-like symmetrical structure peaking in reflected intensity 1.05 arcsec +/- 0.02 arcsec (~ 70 AU) from the central A0V star. The ring geometry, with an inclination of 73.1 deg +/- 1.2 deg and a major axis PA of 26.8 deg +/- 0.6 deg, is in good agreement with recent 12.5 and 20.8 micron observations of a truncated disk (Koerner, et al. 1998). The ring is resolved with a characteristic width of less than 0.26 arcsec (17 AU) and appears abruptly truncated at both the inner and outer edges. The region of the disk-plane inward of ~60 AU appears to be relatively free of scattering material. The integrated flux density of the part of the disk that is visible (greater than 0.65 arcsec from the star) is found to be 7.5 +/- 0.5 mJy and 7.4 +/- 1.2 mJy at 1.1 and 1.6 microns, respectively. Correcting for the unseen area of the ring yields total flux densities of 12.8 +/- 1.0 mJy and 12.5 +/- 2.0 mJy, respectively (Vega magnitudes = 12.92 /+- 0.08 and 12.35 +/-0.18). The NIR luminosity ratio is evaluated from these results and ground-based photometry of the star. At these wavelengths Ldisk(lambda)/L*(lambda) = 1.4 +/- 0.2E-3 and 2.4 +/- 0.5E-3, giving reasonable agreement between the stellar flux scattered in the NIR and that which is absorbed in the visible and re-radiated in the thermal infrared. The somewhat red reflectance of the disk at these wavelengths implies mean particle sizes in excess of several microns, larger than typical interstellar grains. The confinement of material to a relatively narrow annular zone implies dynamical constraints on the disk particles by one or more as yet unseen bodies. 
With attempts to quench the cosmological constant $\Lambda$ having so far failed, we instead investigate what could be done if $\Lambda$ is not quenched and actually gets to be as big as elementary particle physics suggests. Since the quantity relevant to cosmology is actually $\Omega_{\Lambda}$, quenching it to its small measured value is equally achievable by quenching not $\Lambda$ but $G$ instead, with the $G$ relevant to cosmology then being much smaller than that measured in a low energy Cavendish experiment. A gravitational model in which this explicitly takes place, viz. conformal gravity, is presented, with the model being found to provide for a completely natural, non fine tuned accounting of the recent high $z$ accelerating universe supernovae data, no matter how big $\Lambda$ itself actually gets to be. Thus to solve the cosmological constant problem we do not need to change or quench the energy content of the universe, but rather only its effect on cosmic evolution. 
We study the possible contribution of a stochastic gravitational wave background to the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) in cold and mixed dark matter (CDM and MDM) models. We test this contribution against recent detections of CMB anisotropy at large and intermediate angular scales. Our likelihood analysis indicates that models with blue power spectra ($n \simeq 1.2$) and a tensor to the scalar quadrupole ratio of $R = C_2^T /C_2^S \sim 2$ are most consistent with the anisotropy data considered here. We find that by including the possibility of such background in CMB data analysis it can drastically alter the conclusion on the remaining cosmological parameters. 
It becomes possible now to detect cold molecules at high redshift in the millimeter domain. Since the first discovery in 1992 by Brown and van den Bout of CO lines at z=2.28 in a gravitationally lensed starburst galaxy, nearly ten objects are now known to possess large quantities of molecular gas beyond z=1 and up to z = 5, through millimeter and sub-millimeter emission lines.   The continuum dust emission is the most easily detected: in the mm domain, the emission is stronger for the more redshifted objects.   For the CO lines, the situation is less favorable, and the reported detections are helped by gravitational amplification. The increase of the CMB temperature T_{bg} with redshift helps the rotational line excitation (especially at high z), but not its detection.   Absorption in front of quasars is a more sensitive probe of cold gas at high redshift, able to detect individual clouds of a few solar masses (instead of 10^{10} Mo for emission). From the diffuse components, one can measure the cosmic black body temperature as a function of redshift. The high column densities component allow to observe important molecules not observable from the ground, like O2, H2O and LiH for example. 
We will present a summary of the observations of blazars by the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO). EGRET has detected high energy gamma-ray emission at energies greater than 100 MeV from more that 50 blazars. These sources show inferred isotropic luminosities as large as $3\times 10^{49}$ ergs s$^{-1}$. One of the most remarkable characteristics of the EGRET observations is that the gamma-ray luminosity often dominates the bolometric power of the blazar. A few of the blazars are seen to exhibit variability on very short time-scales of one day or less. The combination of high luminosities and time variations seen in the gamma-ray data indicate that gamma-rays are an important component of the relativistic jet thought to characterize blazars. Currently most models for blazars involve a beaming scenario. In leptonic models, where electrons are the primary accelerated particles, gamma-ray emission is believed to be due to inverse Compton scattering of low energy photons, although opinions differ as to the source of the soft photons. Hardronic models involve secondary production or photomeson production followed by pair cascades, and predict associated neutrino production. 
Radiative deceleration of relativistic jets in active galactic nuclei as the result of inverse Compton scattering of soft photons from accretion discs is discussed. The Klein-Nishina (KN) cross section is used in the calculation of the radiation force due to inverse Compton scattering. Our result shows that deceleration due to scattering in the KN regime is important only for jets starting with a bulk Lorentz factor larger than 1000. When the bulk Lorentz factor satisfies this condition, particles scattering in the Thomson regime contribute positively to the radiation force (acceleration), but those particles scattering in the KN regime are dominant and the overall effect is deceleration. In the KN limit, the drag due to Compton scattering, though less severe than in the Thomson limit, strongly constrains the bulk Lorentz factor. Most of the power from the deceleration goes into radiation and hence the ability of the jet to transport significant power (in particle kinetic energy) out of the subparsec region is severely limited. The deceleration efficiency decreases significantly if the jet contains protons and the proton to electron number density ratio satisfies the condition $n_p/n_{e0}>2\gamma_{\rm min}/\mu_p$ where $\gamma_{\rm min}$ is the minimum Lorentz factor of relativistic electrons (or positrons) in the jet frame and $\mu_p$ is the proton to electron mass ratio. 
A comprehensive search of BATSE Spectroscopy Detector data from 117 GRBs has uncovered 13 statistically significant line candidates. The case of a candidate in GRB 930916 is discussed. In the data of SD 2 there appears to be a emission line at 46 keV, however the line is not seen in the data of SD 7. Simulations indicate that the lack of agreement between the results from SD 2 and SD 7 is implausible but not impossible. 
Diffraction-limited images can be obtained with a large optical telescope using interferometry. One such method for objects of sufficient brightness is non-redundant masking (NRM), in which observations are made through a pupil mask that contains an array of small holes. However, NRM only uses a small fraction of the available light. Here I describe a method for Extended NRM in which a cylindrical lens allows interferograms from many one-dimensional arrays to be recorded side-by-side on a two-dimensional detector.   For fainter objects, the holes in the aperture mask should be replaced by slits. In this case, the mask can be removed entirely, with the cylindrical lens effectively creating a continuous series of one-dimensional interferograms. This modified form of speckle interferometry, which I call MODS (Multiplexed One-Dimensional Speckle), is intermediate between NRM and conventional full-aperture speckle. An existing speckle camera can easily be converted to MODS observations by inserting a cylindrical lens. The feasibility of both MODS and Extended NRM are demonstrated using observations with MAPPIT at the Anglo-Australian Telescope. 
The chemical enrichment and stellar abundance ratios of galaxies which form in a hierarchical clustering scheme are calculated. For this purpose I adopt the star formation histories (SFH) as they are delivered by semi-analytic models in Kauffmann (1996}. It turns out that the average SFH of cluster ellipticals does not yield globally alpha-enhanced stellar populations. The star burst that occurs when the elliptical forms in the major merger plays therefore a crucial role in producing alpha-enhancement. Only under the assumption that the IMF is significantly flattened with respect to the Salpeter value during the burst, a Mg/Fe overabundant population can be obtained. In particular for the interpretation of radial gradients in metallicity and alpha-enhancement, the mixing of global and burst populations are of great importance. The model predicts bright field galaxies to be less alpha-enhanced than their counterparts in clusters. 
This paper presents a statistical analysis of the circumgalactic environment of nearby Seyfert galaxies based on a computer-aided search of companion galaxies on the Digitized Sky Survey (DSS). An intrinsic difference between the environment of Seyfert 1 and Seyfert 2 galaxies, suggested by previous work, is confirmed as statistically significant. For Seyfert 2 galaxies we find a significant excess of large companions (diameter of companion >= 10 Kpc) within a search radius <= 100 Kpc of projected linear distance, as well as within a search radius equal to three times the diameter \ds of each Seyfert galaxy. For Seyfert 1 galaxies there is no clear evidence of any excess of companion galaxies neither within 100 Kpc, nor within 3\ds. For all samples the number of companions suggests a markedly non-Poissonian distribution for galaxies on scales <= 100 Kpc. This difference in environment is not compatible with the simplest formulation of the Unification Model for Seyferts: both types 1 and 2 should be intrinsicaly alike, the only difference being due to orientation of an obscuring torus. We propose an alternative formulation. 
We present a method which provides some information on the possible binary nature on an appararently single star. The method compares the instantaneously measured HIPPARCOS proper motion with the long-term averaged, ground-based proper motion or with the proper motion derived from old ground-based positions and the HIPPARCOS position. Good sources for such ground based data are the FK5 and the GC. If the proper-motion difference Delta-mu is statistically significant with respect to its measuring error, the object is very probably a double star. We call then the object a 'delta-mu binary'. If the proper-motion difference is insignificant and if no other information on a binary nature of the object is available, we call such a star a 'single-star candidate'. We propose a quantitative test for the significance of the observed proper-motion difference. The sensitivity of our method is high: For nearby stars at a distance of 10 pc, the measuring accuracy of the proper-motion difference, expressed as a velocity, is of the order of 50 m/s (basic FK5 stars) or 80 m/s (GC stars). At 100 pc, the mean error of the two-dimensional difference is still 0.5 km/s or 0.8 km/s. For the FK5 stars, we provide indications on the probable period of the delta-mu binaries. If we adopt an orbital period and a mass-luminosity relation, we can use the observed velocity difference to estimate the separation and the magnitude difference between the two components of the binary. The present paper concentrates mainly on the basic principles of the method, but it provides also a few examples of delta-mu binaries and of single-star candidates for illustration: Gamma UMa, Epsilon Eri, Iota Vir, 47 UMa, Delta Pav. 
The large-scale gradient of the interstellar medium (ISM) density distribution essentially affects the evolution of Supernova remnants (SNRs). In a non-uniform ISM, the shape of SNR becomes essentially non-spherical, and distributions of gas parameters inside the remnant become strongly anisotropic. The well-known self-similar Sedov solutions may not be applied to modelling such non-spherical objects. Therefore we propose a new approximate analytical method for full hydrodynamical description of 3D point-like explosions in non-uniform media with arbitrary density distribution. On the basis of this method, we investigate the general properties of evolution of 2D non-spherical adiabatic SNRs in ISM with large-scale density gradient. It is shown that the real shape of adiabatic SNR becomes more non-spherical with age, but the visible shape remains close to spherical even for strong real asymmetry (ratio of maximal to minimal shock radii) and surface brightness contrast. It is shown also that the values of the parameters of X-ray radiation from the entire SNR (luminosity, spectral index) are close to those in the Sedov case with the same initial data. However, the surface distribution of the X-ray emission parameters is very sensitive to the initial density distribution around the SN progenitor. Therefore, the X-ray maps give important information about physical conditions inside and outside of the non-spherical SNR. 
We report on the BeppoSAX/WFC observation of a strong type-I X-ray burst from the recently discovered transient source SAX J1810.8-2609. The observed event showed evidence of photospheric radius expansion due to super-Eddington burst luminosity. Burst detection identifies the source as a probable low-mass X-ray binary harbouring a neutron star. 
Big Bang Nucleosynthesis is the theory of the production of the the light element isotopes of D, He3, He4, and Li7. After a brief review of the essential elements of the standard Big Bang model at a temperature of about 1 MeV, the theoretical input and predictions of BBN are discussed. The theory is tested by the observational determinations of the light element abundances and the current status of these observations is reviewed. Concordance of standard model and the related observations is found over a limited range of the baryon-to-photon ratio, the single true parameter of the standard model. Implications of BBN on chemical evolution, dark matter and constraints on particle properties will be also discussed. 
We suggest that the low viscosity in close binary accretion disks during quiescence is due to magnetic fields from the companion star. In very late evolutionary phase the companion stars become brown dwarfs and have cooled down to such low a temperature that this process cannot work anymore. The extremely low viscosity in WZ Sge stars supports this connection between companion stars and viscosity. We further suggest that magnetic activity in such very cool stars is cut off by their poor electric conductivity. 
Following a series of deep observations of the Galactic Bulge region performed with the Wide Field Cameras on board BeppoSAX, it has been possible to study throughout a long time period a number of persistent X-ray sources. We report on the behaviour of GRS 1758-258, an X-ray binary suggested as a black hole candidate on the basis of its timing and spectral characteristics. The source has been monitored for almost 2 years since August 1996; preliminary results of the data analysis are shown hereafter. 
We determine the density parameters $\Omega_m$ of gravitating matter and $\Omega_{\Lambda}$ of vacuum energy, by making a $\chi^2$ fit to nine independent astrophysical constraints. Paying rigorous attention to statistical detail, we find that the present best values are $\Omega_m=0.31\pm 0.07, \Omega_{\Lambda}=0.70\pm 0.13$, where these $1\sigma$ errors are approximately Gaussian (thus trivially convertible to whatever percentage confidence range desired). The total $\chi^2$ is 2.5 for 7 degrees of freedom, testifying that the various systematic errors included are generous. Since $\Omega_m + \Omega_{\Lambda}= 1.01\pm 0.15$, it follows that the Einstein-de Sitter model is very strongly ruled out, that also any low-density model with $\Omega_{\Lambda}=0$ is ruled out, and that a flat cosmology is not only possible, but clearly preferred. In the flat case we find $\Omega_m=0.31\pm 0.04$, from which it follows that the age of the Universe is $t_0 = 13.7^{+1.2}_{-1.1}(0.68/h)$ Gyr. 
We investigate the formation of carbon stars as a function of the stellar mass and parent metallicity. Theoretical modelling is based on an improved scheme for treating the third dredge-up in synthetic calculations of thermally pulsing asymptotic giant branch (TP-AGB) stars. In this approach, the usual criterion (based on a constant minimum core mass for the occurrence of dredge-up, M_c^min) is replaced by one on the minimum temperature at the base of the convective envelope, T_b^dred, at the stage of the post-flash luminosity maximum. Envelope integrations then allow determination of M_c^min as a function of stellar mass, metallicity, and pulse strength (see Wood 1981), thus inferring if and when dredge-up first occurs. Moreover, the final possible shut down of the process is predicted. Extensive grids of TP-AGB models were computed using this scheme. We present and discuss the calibration of the two dredge-up parameters (lambda and T_b^dred) aimed at reproducing the carbon star luminosity function (CSLF) in the LMC. It turns out that the faint tail is almost insensitive to the history of star formation rate (SFR) in the parent galaxy (it is essentially determined by T_b^dred), in contrast to the bright wing which may be more affected by the details of the recent SFR. Once the faint end is reproduced, the peak location is a stringent calibrator of lambda. The best fit to the observed CSLF in the LMC is obtained with Z=0.008, lambda=0.50, log(T_b^dred)=6.4, and a constant SFR up to 5x10^8 yr ago. A good fit to the CSLF in the SMC is then easily derived from the Z=0.004 models, with a single choice of parameters, and a constant SFR over the entire significant age interval. The results are consistent with the theoretical expectation that the third dredge-up is more efficient at lower Zs. 
The VLA has been used at 3.6 and 20 cm to image a sample of about 50 early-type Seyfert galaxies with recessional velocities less than 7,000 km/s and total visual magnitude less than 14.5. The nuclear radio structures of Seyfert 2.0's in the early-type sample tend to be aligned with the [OIII] and Halpha+[NII] structures even though the radio extents are smaller than the [OIII] and Halpha+[NII] extents by a factor of ~2->5. This alignment, previously known for individual Seyferts with `linear' radio sources, is here shown to be characteristic of early-type Seyfert galaxies as a class. Seyfert 2.0's in the early-type sample also show a significant alignment between the emission-line ([OIII] and Halpha+[NII]) axes and the major axis of the host galaxy. These alignments are consistent with a picture in which the ionized gas represents ambient gas predominantly co-planar with the galaxy stellar disk. This ambient gas is ionized by nuclear radiation that may escape preferentially along and around the radio axis, and is compressed in shocks driven by the radio ejecta. We use this alignment to constrain the product of the velocity of the radio ejecta and the period of any large angle precession of the inner accretion disk and jet : V_ejecta x P >= 2 kpc. An investigation of a larger sample of Seyferts reveals the unexpected result that the Seyfert 1's with the largest radio extent (>= 1.5 kpc) are all of type Seyfert 1.2. It appears that classification as this type of intermediate Seyfert depends on some factor other than the relative orientation of the nuclear obscuring torus to the line of sight. 
I review recent observational and theoretical progress in our understanding of the cosmic evolution of luminous sources. Largely due to a combination of deep HST imaging, Keck spectroscopy, and COBE far-IR background measurements, new constraints have emerged on the emission history of the galaxy population as a whole. Barring large systematic effects, the global ultraviolet, optical, near- and far-IR photometric properties of galaxies as a function of cosmic time cannot be reproduced by a simple stellar evolution model defined by a constant (comoving) star-formation density and a universal (Salpeter) IMF, and require instead a substantial increase in the stellar birthrate with lookback time. While the bulk of the stars present today appears to have formed relatively recently, the existence of a decline in the star-formation density above z=2 remains uncertain. The history of the transition from the cosmic `dark age' to a ionized universe populated with luminous sources can constrain the star formation activity at high redshifts. If stellar sources are responsible for photoionizing the intergalactic medium at z=5, the rate of star formation at this epoch must be comparable or greater than the one inferred from optical observations of galaxies at z=3. A population of dusty, Type II AGNs at z<2 could make a significant contribution to the FIR background if the accretion efficiency is of order 10%. 
I review recent results for quasars and discuss how they are related to activity in galaxies. Topics included are studies of quasar host galaxies with HST; searches for quasars in the Hubble Deep Field; evolution of the quasar luminosity function; news highlights from astro-ph; and current observational problems and their relation to theoretical work. 
Since the classical work by Purcell (1979) it has been generally accepted that most interstellar grains rotate suprathermally. Suprathermally rotating grains would be nearly perfectly aligned with the magnetic field by paramagnetic dissipation if not for ``crossovers'', intervals of low angular velocity resulting from reversals of the torques responsible for suprathermal rotation; during crossovers grains are susceptible to disalignment by random impulses.   Lazarian and Draine (1997) identified thermal fluctuations within grain material as an important component of crossover dynamics. For grains of size less than 0.1 micron, these fluctuations ensure good correlation of angular momentum before and after crossover resulting in good alignment, in accord with observations of starlight polarization. In the present paper we discuss two new processes which are important for the dynamics of grains with a<0.1 micron. The first -- ``thermal flipping'' -- offers a way for small grains to bypass the period of greatly reduced angular momentum which would otherwise take place during a crossover, thereby enhancing the alignment of small grains. The second effect -- ``thermal trapping'' -- arises when thermal flipping becomes rapid enough to prevent the systematic torques from driving the grain to suprathermal rotation. This effect acts to reduce the alignment of small grains.   The observed variation of grain alignment with grain size would then result from a combination of the thermal flipping process -- which suppresses suprathermal rotation of small grains -- and due to molecular hydrogen formation and starlight -- which drive large grains to suprathermal rotation rates. 
Using published data, we have compiled the circular velocity (Vc) distribution function (VDF) of galaxy satellites in the Local Group. We find that within the volumes of radius of 570 kpc (400/h kpc for h=0.7) centered on the Milky Way and Andromeda, the average VDF is roughly approximated as n(>Vc)~ 45(Vc/10 km/s)^{-1} h^3 Mpc^{-3} for Vc in the range ~10-70 km/s. The observed VDF is compared with results of high-resolution cosmological simulations. We find that the VDF in models is very different from the observed one: n(>Vc)~1200(Vc/10 km/s)^{-2.75}h^3 Mpc^{-3}. Cosmological models thus predict that a halo of the size of our Galaxy should have about 50 dark matter satellites with circular velocity >20 km/s and mass >3x10^8/h Msun within a 570 kpc radius. This number is significantly higher than the approximate dozen satellites actually observed around our Galaxy. The observed and predicted VDFs cross at ~50 km/s, indicating that the predicted abundance of satellites with Vc> 50 km/s is in reasonably good agreement with observations. We conclude, therefore, that unless a large fraction of the Local Group satellites has been missed in observations, there is a dramatic discrepancy between observations and hierarchical models, regardless of the model parameters. We discuss several possible explanations for this discrepancy including identification of some satellites with the High Velocity Clouds observed in the Local Group, and the existence of dark satellites that failed to accrete gas and form stars due either to the expulsion of gas in the supernovae-driven winds or to gas heating by the intergalactic ionizing background. (Abridged) 
The distribution of atomic hydrogen in the Galactic plane is usually mapped using the Doppler shift of 21cm emission line. We calculate the emission spectrum in velocity slices of data (channel maps) and derive its dependence on the statistics of HI velocity and density fields. We find that (a) if the density spectrum is steep, i.e. n<-3, the short-wave asymptotics of the emissivity spectrum is dominated by velocity fluctuations; (b) the velocity fluctuations make the emission spectra shallower, provided that the data slices are sufficiently thin. In other words, turbulent velocity creates small scale structure that can erroneously be identified as clouds. The contribution of fluctuations in warm HI is suppressed relative to cold component when velocity channels used are narrower than warm HI thermal velocity and small angular scale fluctuations are measured. We calculate how emission spectra vary with the change of velocity slice thickness and show that the observational 21cm data is consistent with the explanation that intensity fluctuations within individual channel maps are generated by a turbulent velocity field. As the thickness of velocity slices increases density fluctuations get to dominate the emissivity. This allows to disentangle velocity and density statistics. Application of our technique to the Galactic and SMC data reveals spectra of density and velocity with the power law index close to -11/3. This is a Kolmogorov index, but the explanation of the spectrum appealing to the Kolmogorov-type cascade faces substantial difficulties. We generalize our treatment for the case of a statistical study of turbulence inside individual clouds. The mathematical machinery developed is applicable to other emission lines. 
Given the recently deduced relationship between X-ray temperatures and stellar velocity dispersions (the "T-sigma relation") in an optically complete sample of elliptical galaxies (Davis & White 1996), we demonstrate that L>L_* ellipticals contain substantial amounts of dark matter in general. We present constraints on the dark matter scale length and on the dark-to-luminous mass ratio within the optical half-light radius and within the entire galaxy. For example, we find that minimum values of dark matter core radii scale as r_dm > 4(L_V/3L_*)^{3/4}h^{-1}_80 kpc and that the minimum dark matter mass fraction is >~20% within one optical effective radius r_e and is >~39-85% within 6r_e, depending on the stellar density profile and observed value of beta_spec. We also confirm the prediction of Davis & White (1996) that the dark matter is characterized by velocity dispersions that are greater than those of the luminous stars: sigma_dm^2 ~ 1.4-2 sigma_*^2. The T-sigma relation implies a nearly constant mass-to-light ratio within six half-light radii: M/L_V ~ 25h_80 M_sun/L_V_sun. This conflicts with the simplest extension of CDM theories of large scale structure formation to galactic scales; we consider a couple of modifications which can better account for the observed T-sigma relation. 
We study the thermal structure of the widely adopted two-dimensional advection dominated accretion flow (ADAF) of Narayan & Yi (1995a). The critical radius for a given mass accretion rate, outside of which the optically thin hot solutions do not exist in the equatorial plane, agrees with one-dimensional study. However, we find that, even within the critical radius, there always exists a conical region of the flow, around the pole, which cannot maintain the assumed high electron temperature, regardless of the mass accretion rate, in the absence of radiative heating. This could lead to torus-like advection inflow shape since, in general, the ions too will cool down. We also find that Compton preheating is generally important and, if the radiative efficiency, defined as the luminosity output divided by the mass accretion rate times the velocity of light squared, is above sim 4x10^-3, the polar region of the flow is preheated above the virial temperature by Compton heating and it may result in time-dependent behaviour or outflow while accretion continues in the equatorial plane. Thus, under most relevant circumstances, ADAF solutions may be expected to be accompanied by polar outflow winds. While preheating instabilities exist in ADAF, as for spherical flows, the former are to some extent protected by their characteristically higher densities and higher cooling rates, which reduce their susceptibility to Compton driven overheating. 
A possible connection among host-galaxies of gamma-ray bursts, BL Lacs and quasars is analysed. It is believed that the gamma-ray bursts, which do not show radio or infrared emission, occur in faint blue dwarf galaxies, that are seen around radio-quiet quasars, which lie in clusters. The GRB counterparts, which show radio emission, may be associated with more evolved starbursting environments, and arise from red galaxies, that are observed around some radio-loud quasars lying in richer clusters. The absorption lines are believed to arise from gases, that move in the intergalactic medium, due to tidal interactions occuring among the compact galaxies in the cluster environment. The connections between intra-day variable BL Lac-blazars and radio emitting gamma-ray hosts are also studied. The hosts of gamma-ray bursts, BL Lacs and quasars are believed to represent different evolutionary phases of a particular type of galaxy with a "twisted" morphology. They mostly occur in star formation environments and evolve from a galaxy possessing no AGN, but consisting of very massive young stellar sytems, to galaxies possessing developed AGNs, like in quasars, whose gas content have been exhausted in giving birth to the stars at the AGN core. In between these two phases, these galaxies may pass through the state of the red objects, which contain a new born quasar hidden under dust.This evolutionary history of the morphologies and the environment, where GRBs may occur is believed to be related to the process of formation of galaxies and large scale structures. Moreover, the starbursting peaks at different redshifts may indicate a universe that is different from the standard cosmolgy. 
Unless the nearby universe is subtly anomalous, it should contain a relatively normal selection of galaxies whose histories are representative of field galaxies in general throughout the Universe. We can therefore take advantage of our ability to resolve the nearby galaxies into individual stars to directly, and accurately, measure star formation histories. The star formation histories are determined from model-fitting analysis, based on stellar evolution tracks, of colour-magnitude diagrams. The most accurate information on star formation rates extending back to the earliest epoches can be obtained from the structure of the main sequence. However, the oldest main sequence turnoffs are very faint, and it is often necessary to use the more evolved stars to infer the star formation history. These can then be compared with the properties of galaxies seen over a large range of lookback times at moderate to high redshifts. There is considerable evidence that the faint blue galaxies seen in large numbers in cosmological redshift surveys are the progenitors of the small late-type irregular galaxies seen in copious numbers in the Local Group, and we concentrate on these here. 
Prompted by work on the buckling instability in barred spiral galaxies, much effort has been devoted lately to the study of boxy/peanut-shaped (B/PS) bulges. Here, we present new bar diagnostics for edge-on spiral galaxies based on periodic orbits calculations and hydrodynamical simulations. Both approaches provide reliable ways to identify bars and their orientations in edge-on systems. We also present the results of an observational search for bars in a large sample of edge-on spirals with and without B/PS bulges. We show that most B/PS bulges are due to the presence of a thick bar viewed edge-on while only a few may be due to accretion. This strongly supports the bar-buckling mechanism for the formation of B/PS bulges. 
We describe the selection of candidate radio-loud quasars obtained by cross-matching radio source positions from the low-frequency (151 MHz) 7C survey with optical positions from five pairs of EO POSS-I plates scanned with the Cambridge Automatic Plate-measuring Machine (APM). The sky region studied is centred at RA 10 h 28 m, Dec +41 and covers 0.057 sr. We present VLA observations of the quasar candidates, and tabulate various properties derived from the radio maps. We discuss the selection criteria of the resulting `7CQ' sample of radio-loud quasars. The 70 confirmed quasars, and some fraction of the 36 unconfirmed candidates, constitute a filtered sample with the following selection criteria: 151-MHz flux density S151 > 100 mJy; POSS-I E-plate magnitude E approx R < 20; and POSS-I colour (O - E) < 1.8; the effective area of the survey drops significantly below S151 approx 200 mJy. We argue that the colour criterion excludes few if any quasars, but note, on the basis of recent work by Willott et al. (1998b), that the E magnitude limit probably excludes more than 50 per cent of the radio-loud quasars. 
Optical data from the ESO VLT-UT1 Science Verification observations are combined with near-infrared data from SOFI at the NTT to obtain optical-infrared color-magnitude diagrams for the objects in the fields of two EIS cluster candidates. In both cases, evidence is found for a well-defined sequence of red galaxies that appear to be significantly more clustered than the background population. These results suggest that the two systems are real physical associations. The (R-Ks), (I-Ks) and (J-Ks) colors of the red sequences are used, in conjunction with similar data for spectroscopically confirmed clusters, to obtain redshift estimates of z ~ 0.9 and z ~ 1.0 for these two systems. These results make these EIS cluster candidates prime targets for follow-up spectroscopic observations to confirm their reality and to measure more accurately their redshift. 
We present results of an optical (I band) monitoring of a sample of 22 Seyfert I galaxies. We aimed to detect microvariability with time resolution from ~ 6 minutes down to 30 seconds for the most luminous one. It is the largest survey ever done in the search of rapid optical variations in Seyfert galaxies. We used differential photometry and a new method of analysis between galaxy and comparison stars light curves in order to minimize the influence of the intrinsic variabilities of the latter. We thus obtain precision on standard deviation measurements less than 1% and generally of the order of 0.5%. We obtain no clear detection of microvariability in any of these objects. In the hypothesis where optical microvariability could be due to synchrotron emission of a non thermal electrons population, we discuss the physical constraints imposed by these results. 
We present a simple analysis of X-ray emission and absorption for hot-star winds, designed to explore the natural scalings of the observed X-ray luminosity with wind and sstellar properties. We show that an exospheric approximation, in which all of the emission above the optical depth unity radius escapes the wind, reproduces very well the detailed expression for radiation transport through a spherically symmetric wind. Using this approximation we find that the X-ray luminosity $L_x$ scales naturally with the wind density parameter $\Mdot/\vinf$, obtaining $L_x \sim (\Mdot/\vinf)^2$ for optically thin winds, and $L_x \sim (\Mdot/\vinf)^{1+s}$ for optically thick winds with an X-ray filling factor that varies in radius as $f \sim r^s$. These scalings with wind density contrast with the commonly inferred empirical scalings of X-ray luminosity $L_x $ with bolometric luminosity $L_B$. The empirically derived linear scaling of $L_x \sim L_B$ for thick winds can however be reproduced, through a delicate cancellation of emission and absorption, if one assumes modest radial fall-off in the X-ray filling factor ($s \approx -0.25$ or $s \approx -0.4$, depending on details of the secondary scaling of wind density with luminosity). We also explore the nature of the X-ray spectral energy distribution in the context of this model, and find that the spectrum is divided into a soft, optically thick part and a hard, optically thin part. Finally, we conclude that the energy-dependent emissivity must have a high-energy cut-off, corresponding to the maximum shock energy, in order to reproduce the general trends seen in X-ray spectral energy distributions of hot stars. 
The color-magnitude diagrams of the open clusters NGC 2420 and NGC 2506 have been investigated as intermediate links between the solar neighborhood and the Magellanic Clouds. Two sets of theoretical isochrones which include convective overshoot are zeroed to the sun at solar abundance and to the unevolved main sequence dwarfs of the Hipparcos catalog at [Fe/H] = -0.4, requiring a differential of 0.4 mag between the unevolved main sequences at a given color. Adopting E(B-V) = 0.04 and [Fe/H] = -0.39 for NGC 2506 and 0.04 and -0.29 for NGC 2420,the respective apparent moduli are 12.70 and 12.15, while the ages of both clusters are approximately 1.9 +/- 0.2 or 2.2 +/- 0.2 Gyr, depending on the choice of isochrones. From the composite giant branch of the two clusters, the mean clump magnitudes in V and I are found to be 0.47 and -0.48 (-0.17,+0.14). Applying a metallicity correction to the M_I values, the cluster sample of Udalski (1998) leads to (m-M)_0 = 18.42 (+0.17,--0.15) and 18.91 (+0.18,--0.16) for the LMC and SMC, respectively. A caveat to this discussion and to the claim that clusters of the same abundance and age are identical is the observation that the (V-I) colors of the red giants in NGC 2506 are significantly redder at a given (B-V) than the giants in clusters of comparable age and/or metallicity. If the CCD photometry for NGC 2506 is tied to the standard system rather than using a general cluster relation between (B-V) and (V-I), the M_I for the clump will decrease by 0.1 mag. 
What can we learn from the somewhat arduous study of old stellar populations in nearby galaxies? Unless the nearby universe is subtly anomalous, it should contain a relatively normal selection of galaxies whose histories are representative of field galaxies in general throughout the Universe. We can therefore take advantage of our ability to resolve local galaxies into individual stars to directly, and accurately, measure star formation histories. The star formation histories are determined from numerical models, based on stellar evolution tracks, of colour-magnitude diagrams. The most accurate information on star formation rates extending back to the earliest epoches can be obtained from the structure of the main sequence. However, the oldest main sequence turnoffs are very faint, and it is often necessary to use the brighter, more evolved, populations to infer the star formation history at older times. A complete star formation history can be compared with the spectroscopic properties of galaxies seen over a large range of lookback times in redshift surveys. There is considerable evidence that the faint blue galaxies seen in large numbers in cosmological surveys are the progenitors of the late-type irregular galaxies seen in copious numbers in the Local Group, and beyond. We consider how the ``Madau-diagram'', the star formation history of the Universe, would look if the Local Group were to be considered representative of the Universe as a whole. 
We have detected two high ionization phases of gas in the z ~ 2.77 partial Lyman limit system (LLS) towards QSO 1157-3143. We detect the first phase by CIV and SiIV absorption, and the second phase -- which is either warmer or undergoing larger random bulk motions than the first -- via OVI absorption. Both phases of gas are present in similar column density ratios in each of the 5 velocity components, making it appear that this LLS is constructed of 5 very similar building blocks. We find that this system displays some of the properties expected of a hierarchical merging event, although published models may have trouble explaining the SiIV absorption we observe. When different ions show similar velocity structure, we commonly assume that they arise in the same gas, and we compare their column densities to derive the ionization and abundances. For this one absorption system the different ions have similar velocity but they do not arise in the same gas. 
ISO spectral observations of the supernova remnant RCW103 are presented. This object is the prototype of relatively young remnants with fast shocks interacting with dense interstellar medium. The spectrum is dominated by prominent lines of [NeII], [SiII], [FeII] and other low excitation species which provide, for the first time, a simple and reliable estimate of the gas abundances of refractory (Si, Fe, Ni) and non-refractory (Ne, P, S, Cl, Ar) species. Apart from nickel, all the derived abundances are close to solar, confirming that the shock has destroyed all dust grains. Like the optical nickel lines, [NiII] 6.64micron yields Ni abundances a factor ~10 solar which we propose results from a large underestimation of the computed Ni+ collision strengths. The observed intensities and velocity widths of ionic lines are compatible with emission from the post-shock region alone with only a very small (if any) contribution from the photoionized precursor. This result does not agree with shock models which predict that the precursor should emit powerful line emission, especially from highly ionized species. The possible consequence of this on the modelling of Seyfert spectra is briefly discussed. 
We discuss a new technology that promises large inexpensive mirrors. We argue that it should be possible to tilt a rotating viscous liquid by perhaps as much as a few tens of degrees. The tilted liquid parabolic surface is used as the support for a thin reflecting metallic film. We demonstrate two critical steps: that a viscous liquid mirror can be tilted and that an optical quality metallic film can be deposited on a liquid. The advent of astronomically useful tilted floating mirror telescopes is contingent on the development of high-viscosity high-reflectivity liquids. It is a good omen that we already have identified two classes of such liquids; however there remain technical challenges to overcome before such liquids can be used in viable telescopes. 
A review is made of recent magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) theory and simulations of origin of jets from accretion disks. Many compact astrophysical objects emit powerful, highly-collimated, oppositely directed jets. Included are the extra galactic radio jets of active galaxies and quasars, and old compact stars in binaries, and emission line jets in young stellar objects. It is widely thought that these different jets arise from rotating, conducting accretion disks threaded by an ordered magnetic field. The twisting of the magnetic field by the rotation of the disk drives the jets by magnetically extracting matter, angular momentum, and energy from the accretion disk. Two main regimes have been discussed theoretically, hydromagnetic winds which have a significant mass flux, and Poynting flux jets where the mass flux is negligible. Over the past several years, exciting new developments on models of jets have come from progress in MHD simulations which now allow the study of the origin - the acceleration and collimation - of jets from accretion disks. Simulation studies in the hydromagnetic wind regime indicate that the outflows are accelerated close to their region of origin whereas the collimation occurs at much larger distances. 
The magnetic energy of nonlinear Alfven waves in compressible plasmas may be ponderomotively coupled only to ion-acoustic quasi-modes which modulate the wave phase velocity and cause wave-front steepening. In the collisionless plasma with $\beta\not=0$, the dynamics of nonlinear Alfven wave is also affected by the resonant particle-wave interactions. Upon relatively rapid evolution (compared to the particle bounce time), the quasi-stationary wave structures, identical to the so called (Alfvenic) Rotational Discontinuities, form, the emergence and dynamics of which has not been previously understood. Collisionless (Landau) dissipation of nonlinear Alfven waves is also a plausible and natural mechanism of the solar wind heating. Considering a strong, compressible, Alfvenic turbulence as an ensemble of randomly interacting Alfvenic discontinuities and nonlinear waves, it is shown that there exist two distinct phases of turbulence. What phase realizes depends on whether this collisionless damping is strong enough to provide adequate energy sink at all scales and, thus, to support a steady-state cascade of the wave energy. In long-time asymptotics, however, the particle distribution function is affected by the wave magnetic fields. In this regime of nonlinear Landau damping, resonant particles are trapped in the quasi-stationary Alfvenic discontinuities, giving rise to a formation of a plateau on the distribution function and quenching collisionless damping. Using the virial theorem for trapped particles, it is analytically demonstrated that their effect on the nonlinear dynamics of such discontinuities is non-trivial and forces a significant departure of the theory from the conventional paradigm. 
In the first part of this contribution the observed velocity dispersions in Galactic halo dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxies are reviewed, and the consequences for dark matter content outlined. The results are suggestive of a dSph dark matter mass of ~2x10^7 solar masses, independent of the luminosity of the dSph. Alternatives to the dark matter interpretation are also briefly discussed. In the second part of the contribution the emphasis is on the stellar populations of Galactic dSphs. Recent results for the ages of the oldest populations are presented. These data, together with similar recent results for Galactic halo and LMC globular clusters, indicate that regardless of the subsequent star formation history, the initial epoch of star formation was well synchronized throughout the entire proto-Galactic halo. The implications of the first high dispersion studies of element abundance ratios in Galactic dSph red giants are also discussed. For the Sagittarius dSph in particular, the observed abundance ratios show good agreement with expectations for an episodic star formation history, and such a history is in fact deduced from colour-magnitude diagrams studies. 
A satisfactory theory for the formation of globular star clusters (GCs) has long been elusive, perhaps because their true progenitors had not yet been guessed. In this paper I propose a causal relationship between the strongly decreasing densities of Lyman alpha (LyA) clouds at high redshift and the formation of GCs - namely that GCs were created by the accretion of LyA clouds onto protogalaxies. I describe a scenario which involves an inherently stable and orderly cycling of compression and cooling in the central cores of clouds during the extended period of dissipation in the outer regins of gas-rich proto galaxies, culminating in a burst of efficient star formation. I demonstrate that the comoving density of GCs is comparable to that of LyA clouds at high redshift, that the energetic requirements for compression to core GC densities can be met, and that the time-scale for cooling is within obvious limits imposed by dynamical stability.   This dissipative process requires there to be a large column of dissipated gas about the attractor in order to form GCs. In addition, the energy requirements for compression requires attractor masses greater than that capable of sustaining circular velocities of ~40 km/s. If this scenario is supported by numerical simulations, then by implication, the GCs were formed at modest redshifts of z~1-3. This knowledge could help to break the degeneracy between lookback time and redshift. The model is consistent with a picture of hierarchical galaxy growth over time scales of many billions of years. 
The warm ionized gas in low-mass, metal-poor starforming galaxies is chemically homogeneous despite the prevalence of large H II regions which contain hundreds of evolved massive stars, supernovae, and Wolf-Rayet stars with chemically-enriched winds. Galaxies with large Wolf-Rayet star content are chemically indistinguishable from other vigorously star-forming galaxies. Furthermore, no significant localized chemical fluctuations are present in the vicinity of young star clusters, despite large expected chemical yields of massive stars. An ad-hoc fine-tuning of the release, dispersal and mixing of the massive star ejecta could give rise to the observed homogeneity, but a more probable explanation is that fresh ejecta from massive stars reside in a hard-to-observe hot or cold phase. In any case, the observed chemical homogeneity indicates that heavy elements which have already mixed with the warm interstellar medium (thus accessible to optical spectroscopy) are homogeneously dispersed over scales exceeding 1 kpc. Mixing of fresh ejecta with the surrounding warm ISM apparently requires longer than the lifetimes of typical H II regions (>10^7 yrs). The lack of observed localized chemical enrichments is consistent with a scenario whereby freshly-synthesized metals from massive stars are expelled into the halos of galaxies in a hot, 10^6 K phase by supernova-driven winds before they cool and ``rain'' back down upon the galaxy, creating gradual enrichments on spatial scales >1 kpc. 
We used the IRAM Interferometer to obtain sub-arcsecond resolution observations of the high-mass star-forming region W3(OH) and its surroundings at a frequency of 220 GHz. With the improved angular resolution, we distinguish 3 peaks in the thermal dust continuum emission originating from the hot core region about 6 arcsec (0.06 pc) east of W3(OH). The dust emission peaks are coincident with known radio continuum sources, one of which is of non-thermal nature. The latter source is also at the center of expansion of a powerful bipolar outflow observed in water maser emission. We determine the hot core mass to be 15 solar masses based on the integrated dust continuum emission. Simultaneously many molecular lines are detected allowing the analysis of the temperature structure and the distribution of complex organic molecules in the hot core. From HNCO lines, spanning a wide range of excitation, two 200 K temperature peaks are found coincident with dust continuum emission peaks suggesting embedded heating sources within them. 
We describe radio continuum and spectral line observations of the source G320.4-01.2 (MSH 15-52) and the coincident young pulsar B1509-58 made with the Australia Telescope Compact Array. Based on a comparison between X-ray and radio observations, we argue that the two main radio components of G320.4-01.2 are a single supernova remnant (SNR), which HI absorption indicates is at a distance of 5.2+/-1.4 kpc. A high-resolution correspondence between radio and X-rays argues that the pulsar is interacting with the SNR via an opposed pair of collimated outflows. The outflow itself is seen as an elongated X-ray feature surrounded by a highly polarized radio sheath, while the interaction with the SNR manifests itself as a ring of radio/X-ray knots within the optical nebula RCW 89. We reject the hypothesis that the pulsar outflow powers the entire RCW 89 region.   SNR G320.4-01.2 and PSR B1509-58 agree in distance and in rotation measure, and appear to be interacting. We thus conclude that the two objects are associated and have an age of <~1700 yr. We propose that the SNR resulted from a high-energy or low-mass supernova which occurred near the edge of an elongated cavity. Such a model can account for the SNR's bilateral appearance, its large apparent age, the significant offset of the pulsar from the SNR's centre and the faintness of the pulsar-powered nebula at radio wavelengths. 
We present spectroscopic observations of galaxies in the fields of 10 distant clusters for which we have previously presented deep imaging with WFPC2 on board the HST. The clusters span the redshift range z=0.37-0.56 and are the subject of a detailed ground- and space-based study to investigate the evolution of galaxies as a function of environment and epoch. The data presented here include positions, photometry, redshifts, spectral line strengths and classifications for 657 galaxies in the fields of the 10 clusters. The catalog comprises 424 cluster members across the 10 clusters and 233 field galaxies, with detailed morphological information from our WFPC2 images for 204 of the cluster galaxies and 71 in the field. We illustrate some basic properties of the catalog, including correlations between the morphological and spectral properties of our large sample of cluster galaxies. A direct comparison of the spectral properties of the high redshift cluster and field populations suggest that the phenomenon of strong Balmer lines in otherwise passive galaxies (commonly called E+A, but renamed here as the k+a class) shows an order-of-magnitude increase in the rich cluster environment, compared to a more modest increase in the field population. This suggests that the process or processes involved in producing k+a galaxies are either substantially more effective in the cluster environment or that this environment prolongs the visibility of this phase. A more detailed analysis and modeling of these data will be presented in Poggianti et al. (1998). 
We present a detailed analysis of the spectroscopic catalog of galaxies in 10 distant clusters from Dressler et al. (1999, D99). We investigate the nature of the different spectral classes defined by D99 including star forming, post-starburst and passive galaxy populations, and reproduce their basic properties using our spectral synthesis model. We attempt to identify the evolutionary pathways between the various spectral classes in order to search for the progenitors of the numerous post-starburst galaxies. The comparison of the spectra of the distant galaxy populations with samples drawn from the local Universe leads us to identify a significant population of dust-enshrouded starburst galaxies, showing both strong Balmer absorption and relatively modest [OII] emission, that we believe are the most likely progenitors of the post-starburst population. We present the differences between the field and cluster galaxies at z=0.4-0.5. We then compare the spectral and the morphological properties of the distant cluster galaxies, exploring the connection between the quenching of star formation inferred from the spectra and the strong evolution of the S0 population discussed by Dressler et al. (1997). We conclude that either two different timescales and/or two different physical processes are responsible for the spectral and the morphological transformation. 
We analyse the properties of a sample of 22 bright isolated spiral galaxies on the basis of Johnson B,V,I images and optical rotation curves. The fraction of early morphological types in our sample of isolated galaxies (or in other samples of non-interacting spiral galaxies) appears to be smaller than in samples including interacting systems. The overall morphological aspect is regular and symmetric, but all the galaxies present non-axisymmetric components in the form of bars or rings. We find that the color indices become bluer towards the outer parts and that the ir central values are well correlated with the total colors. The properties of the bulges span a larger range than those of the disks, that thus are more alike between them. None of the galaxies shows a truncated, type II disk profile. It is found that the relation between surface brightness and size for the bulges, the Kormendy relation, is tighter when only isolated galaxies are considered. We find a similar relation for the disk parameters with an unprecedented low scatter. A Principal Component Analysis of the measured parameters shows that 2 eigenvectors suffice to explain more than 95% of the total variance. These are, as found for other samples including spiral galaxies in different environmental situations, a scale parameter given by the mass or, equivalently, the luminosity or the size; and a form parameter given by the bulge to disk luminosity ratio, B/D, or, equivalently, by the gradient of the solid-body rotation region of the rotation curve, the G-parameter. We report here a tight correlation between G and B/D for our sample of isolated spirals that could be used as a new distance indicator. 
We present preliminary results from two observations of the radio galaxy Centaurus A performed by the BeppoSAX satellite. We did not detect any spectral variation of the nuclear continuum in spite of the long-term flux change (by a factor 1.3) between the two observations. At both epochs, the nuclear point-like emission was well fitted with a strongly absorbed power law with an exponential cutoff at high energies (E_cutoff>200 keV). We also observed a significant flux variation of the iron line between the two observations. The flux of the line and of the continuum changed in the opposite sense. The line is more intense at the first epoch, when the nuclear source was at the lower intensity level. The implied delay between the continuum and line variations strongly suggests that the cold material responsible for the iron line production is not located very near to the primary X-ray source. There is also evidence that the line profile changed between the two epochs, being broader and slightly blueshifted when the source was fainter. It is possible that the emission feature is a blend of cold and ionized iron lines produced in separate regions surrounding the nuclear source. 
We present the first results of a study of faint 12 micron sources detected with the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) in four deep, high galactic latitude fields. The sample includes 50 such sources in an area of 0.1 square degrees down to a 5 sigma flux limit of about 500 microJy. From optical identifications based on the US Naval Observatory (USNO) catalogue and analysis of the optical/IR colours and Digital Sky Survey (DSS) images, we conclude that 37 of these objects are galaxies and 13 are stars. We derive galaxy number counts and compare them with existing IRAS counts at 12 microns, and with models of the 12 micron source population. In particular, we find evidence for significant evolution in the galaxy population, with the no-evolution case excluded at the 3.5 sigma level. The stellar population is well matched by existing models. Two of the objects detected at 12 micron are associated with known galaxies. One of these is an IRAS galaxy at z=0.11 with a luminosity of 10^11 L_sun. 
It has normally been assumed that primordial black holes (PBHs) always form with mass approximately equal to the mass contained within the horizon at that time. Recent work studying the application of critical phenomena in gravitational collapse to PBH formation has shown that in fact, at a fixed time, PBHs with a range of masses are formed. When calculating the PBH initial mass function it is usually assumed that all PBHs form at the same horizon mass. It is not clear, however, that it is consistent to consider the spread in the mass of PBHs formed at a single horizon mass, whilst neglecting the range of horizon masses at which PBHs can form. We use the excursion set formalism to compute the PBH initial mass function, allowing for PBH formation at a range of horizon masses, for two forms of the density perturbation spectrum. First we examine power-law spectra with $n>1$, where PBHs form on small scales. We find that, in the limit where the number of PBHs formed is small enough to satisfy the observational constraints on their initial abundance, the mass function approaches that found by Niemeyer and Jedamzik under the assumption that all PBHs form at a single horizon mass. Second, we consider a flat perturbation spectrum with a spike at a scale corresponding to horizon mass $\sim 0.5 M_{\odot}$, and compare the resulting PBH mass function with that of the MACHOs (MAssive Compact Halo Objects) detected by microlensing observations. The predicted mass spectrum appears significantly wider than the steeply-falling spectrum found observationally. 
We present the results of an intensive campaign of spectroscopic and photometric monitoring of the peculiar Wolf-Rayet star WR 134 from 1989 to 1997.   This unprecedentedly large data set allows us to confirm unambiguously the existence of a coherent 2.25 +/- 0.05 day periodicity in the line-profile changes of He II 4686, although the global pattern of variability is different from one epoch to another. This period is only marginally detected in the photometric data set. Assuming the 2.25 day periodic variability to be induced by orbital motion of a collapsed companion, we develop a simple model aiming at investigating (i) the effect of this strongly ionizing, accreting companion on the Wolf-Rayet wind structure, and (ii) the expected emergent X-ray luminosity. We argue that the predicted and observed X-ray fluxes can only be matched if the accretion on the collapsed star is significantly inhibited. Additionally, we performed simulations of line-profile variations caused by the orbital revolution of a localized, strongly ionized wind cavity surrounding the X-ray source. A reasonable fit is achieved between the observed and modeled phase-dependent line profiles of He II 4686. However, the derived size of the photoionized zone substantially exceeds our expectations, given the observed low-level X-ray flux. Alternatively, we explore rotational modulation of a persistent, largely anisotropic outflow as the origin of the observed cyclical variability. Although qualitative, this hypothesis leads to greater consistency with the observations. 
High spatial resolution imaging with the Hubble Space Telescope allowed us to resolve the compact HII, region N81 lying in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). We show the presence of a tight cluster of newborn massive stars embedded in this nebular ``blob'' of about 10 arcsecs, across. This is the first time the stellar content and internal morphology of such an object is uncovered. These are among the youngest massive stars in this galaxy accessible to direct observations at ultraviolet and optical wavelengths. Six of them are grouped in the core region of about 2 arcsecs diameter, with a pair of the main exciting stars in the very center separated by only 0.27 arcsecs or 0.08 pc. The images display violent phenomena such as stellar winds, shocks, ionization fronts, typical of turbulent starburst regions. Since the SMC is the most metal-poor galaxy observable with very high angular resolution, these observations provide important templates for studying star formation in the very distant metal-poor galaxies which populate the early Universe. 
The optical Einstein ring 0047-2808 was imaged by the VLT UT1 during the science verification programme. The ring is the image of a high-redshift z=3.595 star-forming galaxy, with strong Ly-alpha emission at 5589A, gravitationally lensed by a massive early-type galaxy at z=0.485. Relative to earlier NTT data the high signal-to-noise ratio of the VLT Ly-alpha narrow-band image allows much improved constraints to be placed on the surface-brightness profile of the source and on the mass, leading to a measured mass-to-light ratio of M/L(B)~13h for the deflector galaxy. We have combined the VLT B-band and Ly-alpha narrow-band images with a K-band image obtained at UKIRT to produce a deep colour image of the system. 
Surveys with ISO (Kessler et al 1996), in particular with the CAM (Cesarsky et al 1996) and PHOT (Lemke et al 1996) instruments, will greatly extend our understanding of extra-galactic populations and their cosmological evolution. The main advantages that ISO surveys have over e.g IRAS are increased sensitivity/depth and wavelength coverage. Within the Guaranteed and Open Time programmes there are many field surveys which will efficiently map the limits in these parameters. In this talk I will briefly overview those surveys before concentrating in more detail on one survey in particular, the ISO survey of the Hubble Deep Field (HDF), to illustrate the kind of results that can be expected. 
We present the results of a radial velocity survey designed to measure the fraction of double degenerates among DA white dwarfs. The narrow core of the H-alpha line was observed twice or more for 46 white dwarfs yielding radial velocities accurate to a few km/s. This makes our survey the most sensitive to the detection of double degenerates undertaken to date. We found no new double degenerates in our sample, though H-alpha emission from distant companions is seen in two systems. Two stars known to be double degenerates prior to our observations are included in the analysis. We find a 95% probability that the fraction of double degenerates among DA white dwarfs lies in the range [0.017,0.19]. 
The European Large Area ISO Survey (ELAIS) has surveyed ~12 square degrees of the sky at 15mu and 90mu and subsets of this area at 6.75mu and 175mu using the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). This project was the largest single open time programme executed by ISO, taking 375 hours of data. A preliminary catalogue of more than 1000 galaxies has been produced. In this talk we describe the goals of the project and present a provisional number count analysis at 15 \micron. 
We have observed the much studied Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC5548 with the GHRS spectrometer on HST. Our 14ksec observation covers the CIV emission line at a resolution of >20,000. Our purpose was to study the absorption line found at lower resolution by IUE and HST/FOS. We found that the CIV absorption line resolves into 6 separate doublets with EWs of 0.07\AA--0.38\AA. The absorption lines have blueshifts relative to the systemic velocity of the galaxy of 380 -- 1250 km/s, except for one which has a redshift of 250 km/s, suggesting both inflow and outflow. The inflowing component may be related to the accretion flow into the nuclear black hole. All the doublet lines are resolved by the GHRS. Three doublets are narrow with FWHM\lax100 km/s, and three are broad, FWHM \sim 160--290 km/s . We find evidence of partial covering by the narrow absorption lines. Either (but not both) of the two strongest broad doublets could be from the same material that produces the X-ray ionized absorber seen in soft X-rays. The remaining five systems must be at least 10 times less ionized (and so of lower total column density) to remain consistent with the X-ray spectra. 
The VLBI technique can image compact radio sources with resolutions of the order of the milliarcsecond and can determine astrometrically relative positions with submilliarcsecond precisions. We determined the angular separations among the radio sources in the triangle 1803+784/1928+738/2007+777 with submilliarcsecond accuracy from a weighted least squares analysis of the differential phases. The comparison of the estimated separation of the pair 1928+738/2007+777 with previous such estimates obtained from data at different epochs allowed us to align the maps of 1928+738 at diferent epochs relative to those of 2007+777, showing that the jet components of 1928+738 display proper motions, and suggesting an identification for the position of the core of this radio source. We have also observed astrometrically the complete S5 polar cap sample, that among the 13 sources within 20 degrees to the celestial North Pole includes the above 3. These observations are carried out in the framework of a long-term astrometric program to determine the absolute kinematics of radio sources in the S5 complete sample. 
EGRET has detected 67 sources associated with active galactic nuclei. With the exception of radio galaxy Cen A, all are classified as belonging to the blazar class of active galactic nuclei. The cumulative exposure from multiple EGRET observations has provided the first clear detection of Centaurus A. Unlike the \gr blazars seen by EGRET which are believed to exhibit near-alignment of the central jet along the line-of-sight, Cen A provides the first evidence for $>$100 MeV emission from a source with a confirmed large-inclination jet. Although the high-energy emission represents a lower luminosity than most EGRET blazars, with the advent of new more sensitive instruments such as GLAST and VERITAS, the detection of off-axis high-energy emission from more distant radio galaxies is an exciting possibility. 
We discuss the possibilities of detecting radio pulses from high energy showers in ice, such as those produced by PeV and EeV neutrino interactions. It is shown that the rich radiation pattern structure in the 100 MHz to few GHz allows the separation of electromagnetic showers induced by photons or electrons above 100 PeV from those induced by hadrons. This opens up the possibility of measuring the energy fraction transmitted to the electron in a charged current electron neutrino interaction with adequate sampling of the angular distribution of the signal. The radio technique has the potential to complement conventional high energy neutrino detectors with flavor information. 
The interaction of the heliosphere with interstellar clouds has attracted interest since the late 1920's, both with a view to explaining apparent quasi-periodic climate "catastrophes" as well as periodic mass extinctions. Until recently, however, models describing the solar wind - local interstellar medium (LISM) interaction self-consistently had not been developed. Here, we describe the results of a two-dimensional (2D) simulation of the interaction between the heliosphere and an interstellar cloud with the same properties as currently, except that the neutral H density is increased from the present value of n(H) ~ 0.2 cm^-3 to 10 cm^-3. The mutual interaction of interstellar neutral hydrogen and plasma is included. The heliospheric cavity is reduced considerably in size (approximately 10 - 14 AU to the termination shock in the upstream direction) and is highly dynamical. The interplanetary environment at the orbit of the Earth changes markedly, with the density of interstellar H increasing to ~2 cm^-3. The termination shock itself experiences periods where it disappears, reforms and disappears again. Considerable mixing of the shocked solar wind and LISM occurs due to Rayleigh-Taylor-like instabilities at the nose, driven by ion-neutral friction. Implications for two anomalously high concentrations of 10Be found in Antarctic ice cores 33 kya and 60 kya, and the absence of prior similar events, are discussed in terms of density enhancements in the surrounding interstellar cloud. The calculation presented here supports past speculation that the galactic environment of the Sun moderates the interplanetary environment at the orbit of the Earth, and possibly also the terrestrial climate. 
The low-redshift Ly-alpha forest of absorption lines provides a probe of large-scale baryonic structures in the intergalactic medium, some of which may be remnants of physical conditions set up during the epoch of galaxy formation. We discuss our recent Hubble Space Telescope (HST) observations and interpretation of low-z Ly-alpha clouds toward nearby Seyferts and QSOs, including their frequency, space density, estimated mass, association with galaxies, and contribution to Omega-baryon. Our HST/GHRS detections of 70 Ly-alpha absorbers with N_HI > 10^12.6 cm-2 along 11 sightlines covering pathlength Delta(cz) = 114,000 km/s show f(>N_HI) ~ N_HI^{-0.63 +- 0.04} and a line frequency dN/dz = 200 +- 40 for N_HI > 10^12.6 cm-2 (one every 1500 km/s of redshift). A group of strong absorbers toward PKS 2155-304 may be associated with gas (400-800) h_75^-1 kpc from 4 large galaxies, with low metallicity (< 0.003 solar) and D/H < 2 x 10^-4. At low-z, we derive a metagalactic ionizing radiation field from AGN of J_0 = 1.3^{+0.8 -0.5} x 10^-23 ergs/cm2/s/Hz/sr and a Ly-alpha-forest baryon density Omega-baryon = (0.008 +- 0.004) h_75^-1 [J_-23 N_14 b_100]^{1/2} For clouds of characteristic size b = (100 kpc)b_100. 
We present a systematic analysis of the intracluster medium (ICM) in an X-ray flux limited sample of 45 galaxy clusters. Using archival ROSAT PSPC data and published ICM temperatures, we present best fit double and single beta model profiles and extract ICM central densities and radial distributions. We use numerical cluster simulations to estimate uncertainties for all measurements.   We examine the ICM properties within the context of models of structure formation and galaxy feedback. We present best fit ICM mass-temperature MICM-TX relations for MICM calculated within R500 and 1Mpc. These relations exhibit small scatter (17%), providing evidence of regularity in large, X-ray flux limited cluster ensembles. The slope of the MICM-TX relation (at limiting radius R500) is steeper than the self-similar expectation by 4.3sigma. There is a mild dependence of ICM mass fraction fICM on TX; the clusters with ICM temperatures below 5keV have a lower mass fraction <fICM>=0.160\pm0.008 than hotter clusters <fICM>=0.212\pm0.006 (H0=50; 90% conf intervals). Our large, X-ray flux limited cluster sample provides no evidence for a more extended radial ICM distribution in low TX clusters down to the sample limit of 2.4keV.   We find that density variations in simulated clusters cause MICM to be overestimated by 12%. We also use simulations to estimate an fICM depletion factor at R500. We use the bias corrected mean fICM within the hotter cluster subsample as a lower limit on the cluster baryon fraction. In combination with nucleosynthesis constraints this measure provides a firm upper limit on the density parameter for clustered matter Omega_M<0.36\pm0.01 (H0=50). 
In this paper, we will review major new results regarding classical Cepheids, in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) and Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). Specifically, we discuss recent work regarding multimode Cepheids and describe new observations of a W Vir star (HV 5756) and a Cepheid which are each in eclipsing binary systems. An additional interesting pulsating supergiant in an eclipsing system is also identified. Ephemerides for eclipses for the three systems are provided. 
(Abridged): The total populations of globular cluster systems (GCSs) are discussed in terms of their connection to the efficiency of globular cluster formation---the mass fraction of star-forming gas that was able to form bound stellar clusters rather than isolated stars or unbound associations---in galaxy halos. Observed variations in GCS specific frequencies (S_N=N_gc/L_gal), both as a function of galactocentric radius in individual systems and globally between entire galaxies, are reviewed in this light. It is argued that trends in S_N do not reflect any real variation in the underlying efficiency of cluster formation; rather, they result from ignoring the hot gas in many large ellipticals. This claim is checked and confirmed in each of M87, M49, and NGC 1399, for which existing data are combined to show that the volume density profile of globular clusters, rho_cl, is directly proportional to the sum of (rho_gas+rho_stars) at large radii. The constant of proportionality is the same in each case: epsilon=0.0026 +/- 0.0005 in the mean. This is identified with the globular cluster formation efficiency. The implication that epsilon might have had a universal value is supported by data on the GCSs of 97 early-type galaxies, on the GCS of the Milky Way, and on the ongoing formation of open clusters. These results have specific implications for some issues in GCS and galaxy formation, and they should serve as a strong constraint on more general theories of star and cluster formation. 
We present the results on the TeV gamma emission from Mkn 501 in 1997 obtained with the standalone Cherenkov telescopes CT1 and CT2 (threshold > 1.2 and > 1.0 resp.) of the HEGRA collaboration. The CT1 lightcurve has the most complete coverage of all TeV observations of Mkn 501 in 1997 due to the additional observations made under the presence of moonlight. CT2 - at the time of these observations a second generation Cherenkov telescope with relatively low imaging resolution - is a well tested instrument and its 85 hours of observational data on Mkn 501 in 1997 are useful for consistency checks and provide some additional daily data points. The Mkn 501 lightcurve data show significant correlation with RXTE ASM X-ray data consistent with no time-lag. The spectral analysis shows a steepening spectrum extending beyond 10 TeV. No change of the spectral slope with the variation of the intensity was found. The results presented here are consistent with the results from the HEGRA Cherenkov telescope system presented in part I of this paper. 
We discuss the interpretation of transient, unpulsed radio emission detected from the unique pulsar/Be-star binary system PSR B1259-63. Extensive monitoring of the 1994 and 1997 periastron passages has shown that the source flares over a 100-day interval around periastron, varying on time-scales as short as a day and peaking at 60 mJy (~100 times the apastron flux density) at 1.4 GHz. Interpreting the emission as synchrotron radiation, we show that (i) the observed variations in flux density are too large to be caused by the shock interaction between the pulsar wind and an isotropic, radiatively driven, Be-star wind, and (ii) the radio emitting electrons do not originate from the pulsar wind. We argue instead that the radio electrons originate from the circumstellar disk of the Be star and are accelerated at two epochs, one before and one after periastron, when the pulsar passes through the disk. A simple model incorporating two epochs of impulsive acceleration followed by synchrotron cooling reproduces the essential features of the radio light curve and spectrum and is consistent with the system geometry inferred from pulsed radio data. 
We propose that the amplified density fluctuations by the vanishing sound velocity effect during the cosmological quark-hadron phase transition lead to quark-gluon plasma lumps decoupled from the expansion of the universe, which may evolve to quark nuggets (QNs). Assuming power-law spectrum of density fluctuations, we investigate the parameter ranges for the QNs to play the role of baryonic dark matter and give inhomogeneities which could affect big-bang nucleosynthesis within the observational bounds of CMBR anisotropy. The QNs can give the strongest constraint ever found on the spectral index. 
Selected results on estimating cosmological parameters from simulated weak lensing data with noise are presented. Numerical simulations of ray tracing through N-body simulations have been used to generate shear and convergence maps due to lensing by large-scale structure. Noise due to the intrinsic ellipticities of a finite number of galaxies is added. In this contribution we present our main results on estimation of the power spectrum and density parameter Omega from weak lensing data on several degree sized fields. We also show that there are striking morphological differences in the weak lensing maps of clusters of galaxies formed in models with different values of Omega. 
Supersonic random motions are observed in dark clouds and are traditionally interpreted as Alfven waves, but the possibility that these motions are super-Alfvenic has not been ruled out. In this work we report the results of numerical experiments in two opposite regimes; M_a ~ 1 and M_a >> 1, where M_a is the initial Alfvenic Mach number --the ratio of the rms velocity to the Alfven speed. Our results show that models with M_a >> 1 are consistent with the observed properties of molecular clouds that we have tested --statistics of extinction measurements, Zeeman splitting measurements of magnetic field strength, line width versus integrated antenna temperature of molecular emission line spectra, statistical B-n relation, and scatter in that relation-- while models with M_a ~ 1 have properties that are in conflict with the observations. We find that both the density and the magnetic field in molecular clouds may be very intermittent. The statistical distributions of magnetic field and gas density are related by a power law, with an index that decreases with time in experiments with decaying turbulence. After about one dynamical time it stabilizes at B ~ n^{0.4}. Magnetically dominated cores form early in the evolution, while later on the intermittency in the density field wins out, and also cores with weak field can be generated, by mass accretion along magnetic field lines. 
Several topics are discussed regarding the pseudo-Newtonian models of the gravitational field around rotating black holes 
We report our analysis of the properties of galaxy clustering for a new redshift sample of galaxies, the CfA2-South catalog, using statistical methods which do not rely on the assumption of homogeneity. We find that, up to ~ 20 Mpc/h, which is the largest scale to which correlation properties can be reliably inferred, the galaxy clustering is scale-invariant and characterized by a fractal dimension D=1.9 \pm 0.1. Further there is no statistical evidence for homogeneity at any of the larger scales (up to ~150 Mpc/h) probed more weakly by the catalog. These results means that characteristic ``correlation lengths'' for the clustering of galaxies derived using standards methods of analysis are not meaningful. Further the results are very consistent with those obtained from many other catalogs using the methods adopted here, which show the D =2 fractal continuing to beyond 100 Mpc/h. The incompleteness of the relevant data conjectured by various authors to give rise to such behaviour is therefore proved to have no significant effect (up to 20 Mpc/h) on the measured correlations. 
Using a time-dependent Galactic Cosmic Ray flux proportional to the halo Star Formation Rate and including astration and neutrino-induced nucleosynthesis, we have studied the evolution of lithium, beryllium and boron in the halo. Our results set limits to the production of LiBeB by the neutrino-induced nucleosynthesis in massive stars, in order to reproduce the observed constancy of Be/Fe and B/Fe ratios, the lithium plateau and the isotopic ratios evolution. 
We present a numerical investigation of the gravitational collapse of horizon-size density fluctuations to primordial black holes (PBHs) during the radiation-dominated phase of the Early Universe. The collapse dynamics of three different families of initial perturbation shapes, imposed at the time of horizon crossing, is computed. The perturbation threshold for black hole formation, needed for estimations of the cosmological PBH mass function, is found to be $\delta_{\rm c} \approx 0.7$ rather than the generally employed $\delta_{\rm c} \approx 1/3$, if $\delta$ is defined as $\Delta M/\mh$, the relative excess mass within the initial horizon volume. In order to study the accretion onto the newly formed black holes, we use a numerical scheme that allows us to follow the evolution for long times after formation of the event horizon. In general, small black holes (compared to the horizon mass at the onset of the collapse) give rise to a fluid bounce that effectively shuts off accretion onto the black hole, while large ones do not. In both cases, the growth of the black hole mass owing to accretion is insignificant. Furthermore, the scaling of black hole mass with distance from the formation threshold, known to occur in near-critical gravitational collapse, is demonstrated to apply to primordial black hole formation. 
Primordial black holes (PBHs) may form in the early universe when pre-existing adiabatic density fluctuations enter into the cosmological horizon and recollapse. It has been suggested that PBH formation may be facilitated when fluctuations enter into the horizon during a strongly first-order phase transition which proceeds in approximate equilibrium. We employ general-relativistic hydrodynamics numerical simulations in order to follow the collapse of density fluctuations during first-order phase transitions. We find that during late stages of the collapse fluctuations separate into two regimes, an inner part existing exclusively in the high-energy density phase with energy density $\epsilon_{\rm h}$, surrounded by an outer part which exists exclusively in the low-energy density phase with energy density $\epsilon_{\rm h}-L$, where $L$ is the latent heat of the transition. We confirm that the fluctuation density threshold $\delta\epsilon /\epsilon$ required for the formation of PBHs during first-order transitions decreases with increasing $L$ and falls below that for PBH formation during ordinary radiation dominated epochs. Our results imply that, in case PBHs form at all in the early universe, their mass spectrum is likely dominated by the approximate horizon masses during epochs when the universe undergoes phase transitions. 
Based on consistent evolutionary and pulsation calculations, we analyse the effect of metallicity and of different convection treatments in the stellar models on period - magnitude, - color and - radius relationships. In order to perform an accurate comparison with observations, we have computed grids of atmosphere models and synthetic spectra for different metallicities, covering the range of effective temperatures and gravities relevant for Cepheids. The models are compared to recent observations of galactic and Magellanic Clouds Cepheids. Unprecedented level of agreement is found between models and observations. We show that within the range of metallicity for the Galaxy and the Magellanic Clouds, a change of slope in the period - luminosity (PL) relationship is predicted at low periods, due to the reduction of the blue loop during core He burning. The minimum mass undergoing a blue loop and consequently the critical period at which this change of slope occurs depend on the metallicity Z and on the convection treatment in the stellar models. However, besides this change of slope, we do not find any significant effect of metallicity on period - magnitude relationships from V to K bands, and on period - color relationships in IR colors. We only find a detectable effect of $Z$ on $(B-V)$ colors. These results are not affected by uncertainties inherent to current stellar models, mainly due to convection treatment. 
We argue that quiescent WZ Sge is a rapidly spinning magnetic rotator in which most of the matter transfered from the secondary is ejected from the system. Assuming that the observed 27.87 s oscillation period is due to the spinning white dwarf we propose that the other observed principal period of 28.96 s is a beat due to reprocessing of the rotating white dwarf beam on plasma blobs in Keplerian rotation at the outer disc rim. The weaker, transient, 29.69 s period is identified as a beat with the Keplerian period of the magnetosphere. WZ Sge evolves through a cycle of spin-up and spin-down phases. During the spin-down phase it is a DQ Her star, during the spin-up phase it should be a ER UMa star. 
We show that neither accretion nor angular momentum extraction are likely to lead to significant changes in the mass M_1 or angular momentum parameter a_* of a black hole in a binary system with realistic parameters. Current values of M_1 and a_* therefore probably reflect those at formation. We show further that sufficiently energetic jet ejection powered by the black hole's rotational energy can stabilize mass transfer in systems with large adverse mass ratios, and even reduce the mass transfer rate to the point where the binary becomes transient. 
I present a short review of irradiation processes in close binary systems. 
A hydro code coupled with radiation transfer was applied to produce monochromatic light curves of two models of type II supernovae (SN II) simulating SN II-P and SN IIb (SN 1993J-like). We then used these template light curves to evaluate the possibility of detecting SNe II at different redshifts. With a 5 hour exposure at VLT/FORS the SN II-P model may be detected at z=1. However, since our model of SN II-P is underluminous at early phase (t < 10 days) by roughly 1.5 mag a detection at z=2 is quite plausible. SN IIb can be detected as far as at z=4. For 100% detection efficiency up to z=2 one expects to find roughly 1 SN II yr^{-1} arcmin^{-2}. 
The amplitude of the angular two-point galaxy correlation function w(\theta) for galaxies at z~2 is estimated for galaxies in the Hubble Deep Field by using a U < 27 complete sub-sample.   (i) It is confirmed that the amplitude of the correlation can be corrected for the integral constraint without having to make assumptions about the shape of the correlation function and by avoiding the introduction of linear error terms. The estimate using this technique is w(5'') = 0.10 \pm 0.09.   (ii) If the biases introduced in faint galaxy selection due to obscuration by large objects are not corrected for by masking areas around them, then the estimate would be w(5'') =0.16\pm 0.07.   (iii) The effective (3-D) galaxy pair separation at 5'' and this redshift range is ~ 25-250 /h kpc, so the correction to the spatial correlation function \xi(r) due to exclusion of overlapping galaxy dark matter haloes should be considered. For clustering stable in proper units in an \Omega=1,\lambda=0 universe, our w(5\arcs) estimate (a) implies a present-day correlation length of r_0 ~ 2.6^{+1.1}_{-1.7}/h Mpc if halo overlapping is ignored, but (b) for a present-day correlation length of r_0=5.5/h Mpc implies that a typical halo exclusion radius is r_halo=70^{+420}_{-30}/h kpc.   (iv) The decreasing correlation period (DCP) of a high initial bias in the spatial correlation function is not detected at this redshift. For an \Omega=1,\lambda=0 universe and (proper) stable clustering, possible detections of the DCP in other work would imply that \xi at redshifts greater than z_t = 1.7\pm0.9 would be [(1+z)/(1+z_t)]^{2.1\pm3.6} times higher than at z_t, which is consistent with our lack of a detection at z ~ 2. 
Over the next few years new spectroscopic surveys (from the optical surveys of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey and the 2 degree Field survey through to space-based ultraviolet satellites such as GALEX) will provide the opportunity and challenge of understanding how galaxies of different spectral type evolve with redshift. Techniques have been developed to classify galaxies based on their continuum and line spectra. Some of the most promising of these have used the Karhunen and Loeve transform (or Principal Component Analysis) to separate galaxies into distinct classes. Their limitation has been that they assume that the spectral coverage and quality of the spectra are constant for all galaxies within a given sample. In this paper we develop a general formalism that accounts for the missing data within the observed spectra (such as the removal of sky lines or the effect of sampling different intrinsic rest wavelength ranges due to the redshift of a galaxy). We demonstrate that by correcting for these gaps we can recover an almost redshift independent classification scheme.   From this classification we can derive an optimal interpolation that reconstructs the underlying galaxy spectral energy distributions in the regions of missing data. This provides a simple and effective mechanism for building galaxy spectral energy distributions directly from data that may be noisy, incomplete or drawn from a number of different sources. 
I have developed a procedure utilizing a Genetic-Algorithm-based optimization scheme to fit the observed light curves of an eclipsing binary star with a model produced by the Wilson-Devinney code. The principal advantages of this approach are the global search capability and the objectivity of the final result. Although this method can be more efficient than some other comparably global search techniques, the computational requirements of the code are still considerable. I have applied this fitting procedure to my observations of the W UMa type eclipsing binary BH Cassiopeiae. An analysis of V-band CCD data obtained in 1994/95 from Steward Observatory and U- and B-band photoelectric data obtained in 1996 from McDonald Observatory provided three complete light curves to constrain the fit. In addition, radial velocity curves obtained in 1997 from McDonald Observatory provided a direct measurement of the system mass ratio to restrict the search. The results of the GA-based fit are in excellent agreement with the final orbital solution obtained with the standard differential corrections procedure in the Wilson-Devinney code. 
We detect the likely optical counterpart to previously reported X-ray QPOs in spectrophotometry of the intermediate polar GK Persei during the 1996 dwarf nova outburst. The characteristic timescales range between 4000--6000 s. Although the QPOs are an order of magnitude longer than those detected in the other dwarf novae we show that a new QPO model is not required to explain the long timescale observed. We demonstrate that the observations are consistent with oscillations being the result of normal-timescale QPOs beating with the spin period of the white dwarf. We determine the spectral class of the companion to be consistent with its quiescent classification and find no significant evidence for irradiation over its inner face. We detect the white dwarf spin period in line fluxes, V/R ratios and Doppler-broadened emission profiles. 
Observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB), large scale structure (LSS) and standard candles such as Type 1a Supernovae (SN) each place different constraints on the values of cosmological parameters. We assume an inflationary Cold Dark Matter model with a cosmological constant, in which the initial density perturbations in the universe are adiabatic. We discuss the parameter degeneracies inherent in interpreting CMB or SN data, and derive their orthogonal nature. We then present our preliminary results of combining CMB and SN likelihood functions. The results of combining the CMB and IRAS 1.2 Jy survey information are given, with marginalised confidence regions in the H_0, Omega_m, b_IRAS and Q_rms-ps directions assuming n=1, Omega_Lambda+Omega_m=1 and Omega_b h^2=0.024. Finally we combine all three likelihood functions and find that the three data sets are consistent and suitably orthogonal, leading to tight constraints on H_0, Omega_m, b_IRAS and Q_rms-ps, given our assumptions. 
We present a detailed and homogeneous analysis of the ROSAT PSPC surface brightness profiles of 36 clusters of galaxies with high X-ray luminosity (L_X > 10^{45} erg s^{-1}) and redshifts between 0.05 and 0.44. Using recent ASCA estimates of the temperature of the gas for most of the clusters in the sample, we apply both the deprojection technique and model fitting to the surface brightness profiles to constrain the gas and dark matter distributions under the assumption that the gas is both isothermal and hydrostatic.   Applying robust estimators, we find that the gas fraction within r_{500} of the clusters in our sample has a distribution centred on f_gas(r_{500}) = 0.168 h_{50}^{-1.5}. The gas fraction ranges from 0.101 to 0.245 at the 95 per cent confidence level. The values of f_gas show highly significant variations between individual clusters, which may be explained if the dark matter has a significant baryonic component. Within a cluster, the average radial dependence of the gas mass fraction increases outward as r^s, with s~0.20. Combining these results with those of primordial nucleosynthesis calculations and the current estimate of H_0, the above central location implies \Omega_{0, m} < 0.56 at the 95 per cent confidence level. This upper limit decreases to 0.34 if we take the highest significant estimates for f_gas.   A significant decrease in cluster gas fraction with redshift from the local value, f_{gas, 0}, of 0.21, found assuming \Omega_{0, m} =1, is also reduced if \Omega_{0, m} is low. 
We used a newtonian SPH (smooth-particle hydrodynamics) code to follow the final stages of evolution of a coalescing binary system of a neutron star and a black hole. We find that the outcome of the "merger" is very sensitive to the equation of state describing the neutron star. A neutron star with a soft equation of state (polytrope with index Gamma=5/3) is completely disrupted, and a fairly large and long-lived accretion torus is formed. 
New abundances of N, O, Na, Mg, Si, Ca, Sc, Ti, Cr, Fe, Sr, Zr, and Ba are presented for 10 A-type supergiants in the SMC, plus upper limits for C. In interpreting the CNO results for constraints on stellar evolution theories, careful attention has been paid to the comparison abundances, i.e., the present day abundances of SMC nebulae and B-dwarf stars. These new results are also compared to published results from F-K supergiant analyses, and found to be in good agreement when both sets of data are carefully examined as differential (SMC minus Galactic standard) abundances.   With the exception of nitrogen, very small star-to-star abundance variations are found for all elements in this analysis. The N variations are not predicted by standard stellar evolution models. Instead, the results support the new predictions reported from rotating stellar models, where the range in nitrogen is the result of partial mixing of CN-cycled gas from the stellar interior due to main-sequence rotation at different rates (c.f., Langer & Heger 1998). The overall overabundance of nitrogen in the sampled stars also implies these stars have undergone the first dredge-up in addition to having been mixed while on the main-sequence.   The alpha-elements (O, Mg, Si, Ca, Ti) have similar underabundances to Fe, which is not the same as seen in metal-poor stars in the solar neighborhood of the Galaxy. In addition, certain light s-process elements (Zr, Ba) are slightly more underabundant than Fe, which is predicted by the bursting chemical evolution model presented by Pagel & Tautvaisiene (1998) for the SMC. 
Hierarchical structure formation models predict the existence of large numbers of low velocity dispersion dark halos. Galaxy surveys find far fewer galaxies than predicted by analytical estimates and numerical simulations. In this paper, we suggest that these dark halos are not missing, but have been merely misplaced in the galactic astronomy section of the journals: they are the High Velocity Clouds (HVCs). We review the predictions of our model for the Local Group origin of the HVCs and its implications for the formation and the evolution of our Galaxy. We describe recent observations that confirm many of earlier predictions and discuss future tests of the model. 
We observed the narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies IRAS 20181-2244 and IRAS 13324-3809 with a new spectropolarimeter on the RC spectrograph at the CTIO 4m telescope. Previously it had been suggested that IRAS 20181-2244 was a Type 2 QSO and thus might contain an obscured broad-line region which could be detected by the presence of broad Balmer lines in the polarized flux. We found the object to be polarized at about 2%, and constant with wavelength, (unlike most narrow-line Seyfert 1s), but with no evidence of broad Balmer lines in polarized flux. The spectropolarimetry indicates that the scattering material is inside the BLR. IRAS 13224-3809, notable for its high variability in X-ray and UV wavelengths, has a low polarization consistent with a Galactic interstellar origin. 
Recent high resolution observations of Galactic superbubbles have motivated us to re-examine several classes of superbubble models. We compare three classes of hydrodynamic models (the Kompaneets approximation, the thin shell model, and numerical simulations) in order to understand the structure of superbubbles and to gain insight into observations. In particular, we apply models to the W4 superbubble, which has been observed in the Pilot project of the arcminute resolution Canadian Galactic Plane Survey (Normandeau et al. 1996). Magnetohydrodynamic simulations are also performed and point the way to a fuller understanding of the W4 superbubble. We suggest that the highly collimated bubble and apparent lack of a Rayleigh-Taylor instability in the superbubble shell can be explained by the presence of a magnetic field. 
Spectroscopic measurements of emission line ratios and velocities are presented for ionized gas across the central plane of NGC 55, a late-type galaxy in the Sculptor group. The low metallicity in NGC 55 leads to relatively low line ratios of [S II]/H$\alpha$ and [N II]/H$\alpha$ for H II regions as well as the diffuse ionized gas. These are the first spectroscopical measurements of line ratios in ionized gas exterior to the stellar disc of NGC 55. Analysis of the line ratios and the relative velocities of different features suggests that photoionization is a plausible explanation for the ionization of this diffuse gas. The observed shell structures and the corresponding velocities support the idea of diffuse gas being pushed into the halo by supernova explosions and stellar winds. 
We report the detection of CO(3-2) emission from the submillimeter-selected luminous galaxy SMM J14011+0252. The optical counterpart of the submillimeter source has been identified as a merger system with spectral characteristics consistent with a starburst at z=2.565. The CO emission confirms the optical identification of the submillimeter source and implies a molecular gas mass of 5x10^{10}h_{75}^{-2} M(sun), after correcting for a lensing amplification factor of 2.75. The large molecular gas mass and the radio emission are consistent with the starburst interpretation of the source. These results are similar to those found for SMM J02399-0136, which was the first submillimeter selected CO source found at high redshift. The CO detections of these two high-redshift submillimeter galaxies suggest the presence of massive reservoirs of molecular gas which is consistent with the inferred high rates of star-formation (1000 M(sun)/yr). These two systems appear to be associated with merger events which may evolve into present day luminous elliptical galaxies. 
The blue star reported in the field of the young LMC cluster NGC1818 by Elson et al. (1998) has the wrong luminosity and radius to be a "luminous white dwarf" member of the cluster. In addition, unless the effective temperature quoted by the authors is a drastic underestimate, the luminosity is much too low for it to be a cluster member in the post-AGB phase. Other possibilities, including that of binary evolution, are briefly discussed. However, the implication that the massive main sequence turnoff stars in this cluster can produce white dwarfs (instead of neutron stars) from single-star evolution needs to be reconsidered. 
Recent observations and theoretical calculations suggest that some QSO absorption line systems may be due to gas in small dark matter halos with circular velocities on the order of 30 km/s. Additional observational evidence suggests that, in general, many absorption line systems may also be multi-phase in nature. Thus, computing the absorption lines of mini-halos, in addition to providing signatures of small halos, is a natural way to explore multi-phase behavior. The state of gas in mini-halos is strongly affected by the background UV radiation field. To address this issue a code was developed that includes many of the chemical and radiative processes found in CLOUDY and also incorporates spherically symmetric multi-wavelength radiative transfer of an isotropic field, non-equilibrium chemistry, heating, cooling and self-consistent quasi hydro-static equilibrium gas dynamics. With this code detailed simulations were conducted of gas in mini-halos using different types of background spectra. From these simulations the absorption line signatures of the gas were computed and compared with a variety of observations: high redshift metal lines, He lines and low redshift metal line systems. Based on these results the mini-halo model absorption line signatures appear to be consistent with many current observations given a sufficiently soft spectrum. 
We investigate the evolution of intracluster medium during a cluster merger, explicitly considering the relaxation process between the ions and electrons by N-body and hydrodynamical simulations. When two subclusters collide each other, a bow shock is formed between the centers of two substructures and propagate in both directions along the collision axis. The shock primarily heats the ions because the kinetic energy of an ion entering the shock is larger than that of an electron by the ratio of masses. In the post-shock region the energy is transported from the ions to electrons via Coulomb coupling. However, since the energy exchange timescale depends both on the gas density and temperature, distribution of electron temperature becomes more complex than that of the plasma mean temperature, especially in the expanding phase. After the collision of two subclusters, gas outflow occurs not only along the collision axis but also in its perpendicular direction. The gas which is originally located in the central part of the subclusters moves both in the parallel and perpendicular directions. Since the equilibrium timescale of the gas along these directions is relatively short, temperature difference between ions and electrons is larger in the directions tilted by the angles of $\pm 45^\circ$ with respect to the collision axis. The electron temperature could be significantly lower that the plasma mean temperature by $\sim 50 %$ at most. The significance of our results in the interpretation of X-ray observations is briefly discussed. 
We discuss the rationale for the energy cuts used in the previous study of directional correlation of the five highest energy cosmic ray events with compact, radio quasars. We check the consistency of the next three most energetic events which just missed those cuts, with the correlation hypothesis. Agreement between expected and observed properties of these events is good. 
We have searched for TeV gamma-rays from Centaurus A and surrounding region out to +/- 1.0 deg using the CANGAROO 3.8m telescope. No evidence for TeV gamma-ray emission was observed from the search region, which includes a number of interesting features located away from the tracking centre of our data. The 3 sigma upper limit to the flux of gamma-rays above 1.5 TeV from an extended source of radius 14' centred on Centaurus A is 1.28e-11 photons cm^-2 s^-1. 
We present evidence for rotational modulation of X-ray flares by an analysis of four outbursts on late-type stars. Three of these flares have been observed on T Tauri Stars and one on Algol.   The structure of the X-ray lightcurves observed in this selection of flare events is untypical in that the maximum emission extends over several hours producing a round hump in the lightcurve instead of a sharp peak. We explain this deviation from the standard shape of a flare lightcurve as the result of a flare erupting on the back side of the star and gradually moving into the line of sight due to the star's rotation. An estimate for the decay timescale and the size of the X-ray emitting volume is derived. Spectral information supports our proposition that changes of the visible volume are responsible for the observed time development of these flares. 
A possibility that the universe may be strongly inhomogeneous chemically, while very smooth energetically, is considered. A possible mechanism which could lead to such a picture is a large and inhomogeneous lepton asymmetry. The model may explain possibly observed variation of primordial deuterium by an order of magnitude and predicts helium-rich and possibly helium-poor regions where the helium mass fraction differs from the observed 25% by a factor of 2 in either direction. Helium variation can be observed by a different dumping rate of CMB angular spectrum at small angles at different patches of the sky. 
Based on the results of detailed population synthesis models, it was recently claimed that the clump of red giants in the colour-magnitude diagram (CMD) of composite stellar populations should present an extension to lower luminosities, which goes down to about 0.4 mag below the main clump. This feature is made of stars just massive enough for having ignited helium in non-degenerate conditions. In this paper, we go into more details about the origin and properties of this feature. We first compare the clump theoretical models with data for clusters of different ages and metallicities, basically confirming the predicted behaviours. We then refine the previous models in order to show that: (i) The faint extension is expected to be clearly separated from the main clump in the CMD of metal-rich populations, defining a secondary clump by itself. (ii) It should be present in all galactic fields containing ~1 Gyr old stars and with mean metallicities higher than about Z=0.004. (iii) It should be particularly strong, if compared to the main red clump, in galaxies which have increased their star formation rate in the last Gyr or so of their evolution. In fact, secondary clumps similar to the model predictions are observed in the CMD of nearby stars from Hipparcos data, and in those of some LMC fields observed to date. There are also several reasons why this secondary clump may be missing or hidden in other observed CMDs of galaxy fields (e.g. photometric errors or differential absorption larger than 0.2 mag). Nonetheless, this structure may provide important constraints to the star formation history of Local Group galaxies. We comment also on the intrinsic luminosity variation and dispersion of clump stars, which may limit their use as either absolute or relative distance indicators. 
The reionization of the Universe is expected to leave a signal in the form of a sharp step in the spectrum of the sky. If reionization occurs at 5 < z < 20, a feature should appear in the radio sky at 70 - 240 MHz due to redshifted HI 21-cm line emission, accompanied by another feature in the optical/near-IR at 0.7 - 2.6 micron due to hydrogen recombination radiation. The expected amplitude is well above fundamental detection limits, and the sharpness of the feature may make it distinguishable from variations due to terrestrial, galactic and extragalactic foregrounds.   Because this is essentially a continuum measurement of a signal which occurs over the whole sky, relatively small telescopes may suffice for detection in the radio. In the optical/near-IR, a space telescope is needed with the lowest possible background conditions, since the experiment will be severely background-limited. 
We investigate the nature of Lyman break galaxies (LBGs) using a chemodynamical model for evolution of galaxies. Our models predict an early (the first Gyr) stage of intense star formation in the evolution of massive spheroids which could be identified to the LBGs, observed at redshift $\sim 3$ with strong ongoing star formation. In particular, we are successful in reproducing the properties of the LBG DSF 2237+116 C2 with a model describing a young $\sim L^*$ spheroid. The comparison of the predictions of our models with the observations gives support to the scenario in which LBGs are the progenitors of present-day massive spheroids, i.e. bulges of luminous early type spirals or luminous elliptical galaxies. 
An astrophysical model is proposed to answer Fermi's question. Gamma-ray bursts have the correct rates of occurrence and plausibly the correct energetics to have consequences for the evolution of life on a galactic scale. If one assumes that they are in fact lethal to land based life throughout the galaxy, one has a mechanism that prevents the rise of intelligence until the mean time between bursts is comparable to the timescale for the evolution of intelligence. Astrophysically plausible models suggest the present mean time between bursts to be $\sim 10^8$ years, and evolutionarily plausible models suggest the rise of intelligence takes $\sim 10^8$. Hence, this model suggests that the Galaxy is currently undergoing a phase transition between an equilibrium state devoid of intelligent life to a different equilibrium state where it is full of intelligent life. 
UBVR photometry of a sample of B3-VLA radio quasars, about 80 per cent complete, is used to analyse their spectral energy distribution (SED). The SEDs are generally well fitted with power-laws, with an average slope alpha=-0.39 (S_nu propto nu^alpha). Two quasars appear clearly differenciated, exhibiting redder colours that the rest, and they have redshifts z=0.50 and 1.12. Broad-band composite SEDs in the range 1300-4500 AA were obtained from the remaining quasars and they show the CIV1549 line and a break at around 3000 A, where the SED changes from alpha_blue=0.11+-0.16 at lambda>3000 A to alpha_UV=-0.66+-0.15 at lambda<3000 A. The continuum shape depends on redshift. For the quasars with z<1.2 we find alpha_blue=0.21+-0.16 and alpha_UV=-0.87+-0.20, and for z>1.2 alpha_UV is more flat, -0.48+-0.12. A similar trend is found between alpha_UV and luminosity at 2400 A, L_2400, with luminous quasars exhibiting a bluer spectrum. In addition, an intrinsic correlation is found between L_2400 and radio power at 408 MHz. The correlations alpha_UV-z, alpha_UV-L_2400 and L_2400-z are consistent with accretion disc models with approximately constant black hole mass and accretion rates increasing with redshift. If the trends L_2400-z and P_408-z are predominantly related to the radio-flux limits of the sample, only one of the correlations alpha_UV-L_2400 or alpha_UV-z needs to be intrinsic. 
The kinetic energy of bulk relativistic plasma ejected from the central engine of blazars is converted into nonthermal particle energy in the comoving frame through a process of sweeping up material from the surrounding medium. The resulting deceleration of the bulk plasma introduces a number of effects which must be included in blazar modeling. For example, the varying Doppler factor means that model fits must employ time integrations appropriate to the observing times of the detectors. We find that the ratio of the peak synchrotron fluxes reached at two different photon energies is largest when viewing along the jet axis, and becomes smaller at large angles to the jet axis. This effect is important in studies of the statistics of jet sources. Variability due either to bulk plasma deceleration or radiative cooling must be distinguished in order to apply recently proposed tests for beaming from correlated X-ray and TeV observations. The blast-wave physics developed to analyze these problems implies that most of the energy injected in the comoving frame is originally in the form of nonthermal hadrons. Because plasmoid deceleration can produce rapid variability due to a changing Doppler factor, arguments against hadronic blazar models related to the long radiative cooling time scale of hadrons are not compelling. 
Roughly 25% of the optical extragalactic sky is obscured by the dust and stars of our Milky Way. Dynamically important structures might still lie hidden in this zone. Various surveys are presently being employed to uncover the galaxy distribution in the Zone of Avoidance (ZOA) but all suffer from (different) limitations and selection effects.   We illustrate the promise of using a multi-wavelength approach for extragalactic large-scale studies behind the ZOA, i.e. a combination of three surveys -- optical, systematic blind HI and near-infrared (NIR), which will allow the mapping of the peculiar velocity field in the ZOA through the NIR Tully-Fisher relation. In particular, we present here the results of cross-identifying HI-detected galaxies with the DENIS NIR survey, and the use of NIR colours to determine foreground extinctions. 
We have used the VLA to search for gaseous remnants of the galaxy formation process around six extremely isolated galaxies. We found two distinct HI clouds around each of two galaxies in our sample (UGC 9762 & UGC 11124). These clouds are rotating and appear to have optical counterparts, strongly implying that they are typical dwarf galaxies. The companions are currently weakly interacting with the primary galaxy, but have short dynamical friction timescales (~1 Gyr) suggesting that these triple galaxy systems will shortly collapse into one massive galaxy. Given that the companions are consistent with being in circular rotation about the primary galaxy, and that they have small relative masses, the resulting merger will be a minor one. The companions do, however, contain enough gas that the merger will represent a significant infusion of fuel to drive future star formation, bar formation, or central activity, while building up the mass of the disk thus making these systems important pieces of the galaxy formation and evolution process. 
Using CGS4 on UKIRT, we have obtained 2.00-2.45 micron infrared spectra of a number of low-mass X-ray binaries including Sco X-1, Sco X-2, and GX13+1. Sco X-1 shows emission lines only, supporting our previous conclusion that the spectral type of the evolved secondary must be earlier than G5. Emission lines are also seen in the spectrum of Sco X-2, confirming the identity of the IR counterpart. We report the detection of CO bands in GX13+1 and estimate the most likely spectral type of the secondary to be K5 III. We also find P Cygni type profiles in the Brackett gamma lines of Sco X-1 and GX13+1, indicating the presence of high velocity outflows in these systems. We present spectra of candidate IR counterparts to several other elusive X-ray binaries. Finally, implications for the nature and classification of these systems are discussed. 
We present a preliminary analysis of K, J-K color magnitude diagrams (CMDs) for 7 different positions on or close to the minor axis of the Milky Way at Galactic latitudes between +0.1^\circ and -2.8^\circ. From the slopes of the (linear) giant branches in these CMDs we derive a dependence of <[Fe/H]> on latitude for b between -0.8^\circ and -2.8^\circ of -0.085 \pm 0.033 dex/degree. When combined with the data from Tiede et al. we find for -0.8^\circ \leq b \leq -10.3^\circ the slope in <[Fe/H]> is -0.064 \pm 0.012 dex/degree. An extrapolation to the Galactic Center predicts [Fe/H] = +0.034 \pm 0.053 dex. We also derive average values for the extinction in the K band (A_K) of between 2.15 and 0.27 for the inner bulge fields corresponding to average values of E(J-K) of between 3.46 and 0.44. There is a well defined linear relation between the average extinction for a field and the star-to-star scatter in the extinction for the stars within each field. This result suggests that the typical apparent angular scale size for an absorbing cloud is small compared with the field size (90\arcsec on a side). Finally, from an examination of the luminosity function of bright giants in each field we conclude that the young component of the stellar population observed near the Galactic center declines in density much more quickly than the overall bulge population and is undetectable beyond 1^\circ from the Galactic center. 
We consider a model in which the narrow line regions (NLRs) of Seyfert galaxies are photoionized ``in situ'' by fast (300 -- 1,000 km/s), radiative shock waves driven into the interstellar medium of the galaxy by radio jets from the active nucleus. Such shocks are powerful sources of soft X-rays. We compute the expected ratio of the count rates in the ROSAT PSPC and Einstein IPC detectors to the [OIII] \lambda 5007 flux as a function of shock velocity, and compare these ratios with observations of type 2 Seyferts. If most of the observed soft X-ray emission from these galaxies originates in the NLR and the absorbing hydrogen column is similar to that inferred from the reddening of the NLR, a photoionizing shock model with shock velocity $\simeq$ 400 -- 500 km/s is compatible with the observed ratios. High angular resolution observations with AXAF are needed to isolate the X-ray emission of the NLR and measure its absorbing column, thus providing a more conclusive test. We also calculate the expected coronal iron line emission from the shocks. For most Seyfert 2s, the [Fe X] \lambda 6374/H \beta$ ratio is a factor of 2 -- 14 lower than the predictions of 300 -- 500 km/s shock models, suggesting that less hot gas is present than required by these models. 
TeV Gamma-ray signals from the Crab Nebula and Mkn 501 were detected with the HEGRA CT1 imaging Cerenkov telescope during periods when the moon was shining and during twilight. This was accomplished by lowering the high voltage supply of the photomutipliers in fixed steps up to 13%. No other adjustments were made and no filters were used. Laser runs could not establish any non-linearity in the gain of the individual pixels, and the trigger rate was uniform over the whole camera. The energy threshol was increased by up to a factor of two, depending on the amount of HV reduction. In a series of observations lasting 11.7 hours, a signal with a 3.4 sigma significance was detected from the Crab. During the 1997 multiple flare episode of Mkn 501 a 26 sigma combined excess has been recorded during 134 hours of observations under various moonshine/twilight conditions. The results show that this technique can easily be adapted to increase the exposure of a source, which is important for sources showing rapid time variability such as AGNs or GRBs. Observations can be made up to ~20 deg. angular separation from the moon and until the moon is 85% illuminated (ten to eleven days before and after new moon), as well as during 20 to 40 minutes during twilight, before the commencement of astronomical darkness. 
We undertook a long term project, DIRECT, to obtain the direct distances to two important galaxies in the cosmological distance ladder -- M31 and M33 -- using detached eclipsing binaries (DEBs) and Cepheids. While rare and difficult to detect, DEBs provide us with the potential to determine these distances with an accuracy better than 5%. The extensive photometry obtained in order to detect DEBs provides us with good light curves for the Cepheid variables. These are essential to the parallel project to derive direct Baade-Wesselink distances to Cepheids in M31 and M33. For both Cepheids and eclipsing binaries, the distance estimates will be free of any intermediate steps.   As a first step in the DIRECT project, between September 1996 and October 1997 we obtained 95 full/partial nights on the F. L. Whipple Observatory 1.2 m telescope and 36 full nights on the Michigan-Dartmouth-MIT 1.3 m telescope to search for DEBs and new Cepheids in the M31 and M33 galaxies. In this paper, third in the series, we present the catalog of variable stars, most of them newly detected, found in the field M31C [(alpha,delta)=(11.10, 41.42) deg, J2000.0}]. We have found 115 variable stars: 12 eclipsing binaries, 35 Cepheids and 68 other periodic, possible long period or non-periodic variables. The catalog of variables, as well as their photometry and finding charts, is available via anonymous ftp and the World Wide Web. The complete set of the CCD frames is available upon request. 
We report on the discovery of Cepheids in the Virgo spiral galaxy NGC 4535, based on observations made with the Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 on board the Hubble Space Telescope. NGC 4535 is one of 18 galaxies observed as a part of The HST Key Project on the Extragalactic Distance Scale which aims to measure the Hubble constant to 10% accuracy. NGC 4535 was observed over 13 epochs using the F555W filter, and over 9 epochs using the F814W filter. The HST F555W and F814W data were transformed to the Johnson V and Kron-Cousins I magnitude systems, respectively. Photometry was performed using two independent programs, DoPHOT and DAOPHOT II/ALLFRAME.   Period-luminosity relations in the V and I bands were constructed using 39 high-quality Cepheids present in our set of 50 variable candidates. We obtain a distance modulus of 31.02+/-0.26 mag, corresponding to a distance of 16.0+/-1.9 Mpc. Our distance estimate is based on values of mu = 18.50 +/- 0.10 mag and E(V-I) = 0.13 mag for the distance modulus and reddening of the LMC, respectively. 
We investigate whether or not a supermassive black hole (SMBH) with mass $\gtrsim 10^8 M_\odot$ can be made in the heart of ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIGs) during the course of mergers between/among gas rich galaxies. (a) If one progenitor galaxy had a seed SMBH with mass of $\sim 10^7 M_\odot$, this seed SMBH can grow up to $\gtrsim 10^8 M_\odot$ due to efficient Bondi-type gas accretion during the course of merger given a gas density in the circumnuclear region of $n_H \sim 10^3 cm^{-3}$. (b) Even if there was no progenitor galaxy with a seed SMBH, star clusters with compact remnants (neutron stars and/or black holes) produced in the circumnuclear starbursts can merge into the merger center within a dynamical time scale of $\sim 10^9$ years to form a SMBH with $\gtrsim 10^8 M_\odot$. Note, however, that the contribution of compact remnants supplied from hidden star clusters is necessary to lead to the formation of a SMBH. In conclusion, the ultraluminous infrared galaxies observed in the local universe can make a SMBH in their center during the course of merger either by gas accretion onto a seed SMBH or by dynamical relaxation of compact remnants made in the violent circumnuclear starbursts. Therefore, it is quite likely that the ULIGs will finally evolve to optically luminous quasars as suggested by Sanders et al. 
We have obtained high and intermediate resolution optical spectra of the black-hole candidate Nova Sco 1994 in May/June 1998, when the source was in complete (X-ray) quiescence. We measure the radial velocity curve of the secondary star and obtain a semi-amplitude of K_2=215.5+/-2.4 km/s, which is 6 per cent lower than the only previously determined value. This new value for K_2 thus reduces the binary mass function to f(M) = 2.73+/-0.09 Mo. Using only the high resolution spectra we constrain the rotational broadening of the secondary star, vsini, to lie in the range 82.9-94.9 km/s (95 per cent confidence) and thus constrain the binary mass ratio to lie in the range 0.337--0.436 (95 per cent confidence). We can also combine our results with published limits for the binary inclination to constrain the mass of the compact object and secondary star to the ranges 5.5 -- 7.9 and 1.7 -- 3.3 Mo respectively (95 per cent confidence). Finally, we report on the detection of the Lithium resonance line at 6707.8 A, with an equivalent width of 55+/-8 mA. 
We update and extend the results of Shanks (1997, MNRAS, 290, L77) by making a direct test of Tully-Fisher distance estimates to thirteen spiral galaxies with HST Cepheid distances and to ten spiral galaxies with Type Ia supernova (SNIa) distances. The results show that the Tully-Fisher distance moduli are too short with respect to the Cepheid distances by 0.46+-0.11mag and too short with respect to the SNIa distances by 0.49+-0.18mag. Combining the HST Cepheid and the best SNIa data suggests that, overall, previous Tully-Fisher distances at v~1000 kms-1 were too short by 0.43+-0.09mag, a result which is significant at the 4.6 sigma level. These data therefore indicate that previous Tully-Fisher distances should be revised upwards by 22+-5% implying, for example, a Virgo distance of 19.0+-1.8Mpc. The value of Ho from Tully-Fisher estimates is correspondingly revised downwards from Ho=84+-10kms-1Mpc-1 to Ho=69+-8kms-1Mpc-1. There is evidence that the Tully-Fisher relation at large distances is affected by Malmquist bias. In this case, we argue that Ho<50kms-1Mpc-1 cannot be ruled out by Tully-Fisher considerations. 
The method devised by Lewis et al. (1993) for calculating the light curve of a microlensed point source is expanded to two dimensions to enable the calculation of light curves of extended sources. This method is significantly faster than the ray shooting method that has been used in the past. The increased efficiency is used to obtain much higher resolution light curves over increased timescales. We investigate the signatures arising from different source geometries in a realistic microlensing model. We show that a large fraction of high magnification events (HMEs) in image A of Q2237+0305 involve only one caustic, and could therefore yield information on the structure of the quasar continuum through the recognition of a characteristic event shape. In addition, the cataloguing of HMEs into morphological type will, in theory, enable the direction of the transverse motion, as well as the source size to be obtained from long term monitoring. 
Interstellar dust appears in a number of roles in the interstellar medium. Historically, the most familiar one is as a source of extinction in the optical. Absorbed optical and ultraviolet light heats the dust, whence infrared (including near-infrared to submillimeter) emission, the particular theme of this review. In some distant galaxies, most of the luminosity of the galaxy is thus converted into the infrared, though in the Milky Way the situation is not generally as extreme, except in localized regions of star formation. I briefly review the range of physical conditions in which the dust emits in the interstellar medium and the various sizes of dust probed. Of interest astrophysically are observations of both the spectrum and the spatial distribution of the emission, preferably in combination.   In the past fifteen year probes of dust emission have advanced significantly: through IRAS, KAO, COBE experiments, IRTS, ISO, and MSX. Satellite and stratospheric observations of dust emission are complemented by ground-based studies, such as imaging and polarimetry in the submillimeter with the JCMT or imaging of reflected light from dust in the near infrared with 2MASS. Looking ahead, the next decade promises to be equally exciting. I give an overview of some of the distinctive features of facilities anticipated in the near term (WIRE), early in the new millennium (SOFIA, SIRTF), and somewhat further out (IRIS, FIRST, Planck). 
According to the internal-external shocks model for $\gamma $-ray bursts (GRBs), the GRB is produced by internal shocks within a relativistic flow while the afterglow is produced by external shocks with the ISM. We explore the early afterglow emission. For short GRBs the peak of the afterglow will be delayed, typically, by few dozens of seconds after the burst. For long GRBs the early afterglow emission will overlap the GRB signal. We calculate the expected spectrum and the light curves of the early afterglow in the optical, X-ray and $\gamma $-ray bands. These characteristics provide a way to discriminate between late internal shocks emission (part of the GRB) and the early afterglow signal. If such a delayed emission, with the characteristics of the early afterglow, will be detected it can be used both to prove the internal shock scenario as producing the GRB, as well as to measure the initial Lorentz factor of the relativistic flow. The reverse shock, at its peak, contains energy which is comparable to that of the GRB itself, but has a much lower temperature than that of the forward shock so it radiates at considerably lower frequencies. The reverse shock dominates the early optical emission, and an optical flash brighter than 15th magnitude, is expected together with the forward shock peak at x-rays or $\gamma$-rays. If this optical flash is not observed, strong limitations can be put on the baryonic contents of the relativistic shell deriving the GRBs, leading to a magnetically dominated energy density. 
We present a method for computing the probability distribution of microlensed light curve derivatives both in the case of a static lens with a transverse velocity, and in the case of microlensing that is produced through stellar proper motions. The distributions are closely related in form, and can be considered equivalent after appropriate scaling of the input transverse velocity. The comparison of the distributions in this manner provides a consistent way to consider the relative contribution to microlensing (both large and small fluctuations) of the two classes of motion, a problem that is otherwise an extremely expensive computational exercise. We find that the relative contribution of stellar proper motions to the microlensing rate is independent of the mass function assumed for the microlenses, but is a function of optical depth and shear. We find that stellar proper motions produce a higher overall microlensing rate than a transverse velocity of the same magnitude. This effect becomes more pronounced at higher optical depth. With the introduction of shear, the relative rates of microlensing become dependent on the direction of the transverse velocity. This may have important consequences in the case of quadruply lensed quasars such as Q2237+0305, where the alignment of the shear vector with the source trajectory varies between images. 
We study the diversity of the density profiles of dark matter halos based on a large set of high-resolution cosmological simulations of 256^3 particles. The cosmological models include four scale-free models and three representative cold dark matter models. The simulations have good force resolution, and there are about 400 massive halos with more than 10^4 particles within the virial radius in each cosmological model. Our unbiased selection of all massive halos enables to quantify how well the bulk of dark matter halos can be described by the Navarro, Frenk & White (NFW) profile which was established for equilibrium halos. We find that about seventy percent of the halos can be fitted by the NFW profile with a fitting residual dvi_{max} less than 30% in Omega_0=1 universes. This percentage is higher in lower density cosmological models. The rest of the halos exhibits larger deviations from the NFW profile for more significant internal substructures. There is a considerable amount of variation in the density profile even for the halos which can be fitted by the NFW profile (i.e. dvi_{max}<0.30). The distribution of the profile parameter, the concentration $c$, can be well described by a lognormal function with the mean value \bar c slightly smaller (15%) than the NFW result and the dispersion \sigma_c in \ln c about 0.25. The more virialized halos with dvi_{max}<0.15 have the mean value \bar c in good agreement with the NFW result and a slightly smaller dispersion \sigma_c (about 0.2). Our results can alleviate some of the conflicts found recently between the theoretical NFW profile and observational results. Implications for theoretical and observational studies of galaxy formation are discussed. 
Determination of microlensing parameters in the gravitationally lensed quasar Q2237+0305 from the statistics of high magnification events will require monitoring for more than 100 years (Wambsganss, Paczynski & Schneider 1990). However we show that the effective transverse velocity of the lensing galaxy can be determined on a more realistic time-scale through consideration of the distribution of light-curve derivatives. The 10 years of existing monitoring data for Q2237+0305 are analysed. These data display strong evidence for microlensing that is not associated with a high magnification event. An upper limit of v < 500 km/sec is obtained for the galactic transverse velocity which is smaller than previously assumed values. The analysis suggests that the observed microlensing variation may be predominantly due to stellar proper motions. The statistical significance of the results obtained from our method will be increased by the addition of data points from current and future monitoring campaigns. However reduced photometric errors will be more valuable than an increased sampling rate. 
Small-scale explosive events or microflares occur throughout the chromospheric network of the Sun. They are seen as sudden bursts of highly Doppler shifted spectral lines of ions formed at temperatures in the range 2x10^4 - 5x10^5 K. They tend to occur near regions of cancelling photospheric magnetic fields and are thought to be directly associated with magnetic field reconnection. Recent observations have revealed that they have a bi-directional jet structure reminiscent of Petschek reconnection. In this paper compressible MHD simulations of the evolution of a current sheet to a steady Petschek, jet-like configuration are computed using the Versatile Advection Code. We obtain velocity profiles that can be compared with recent ultraviolet line profile observations. By choosing initial conditions representative of magnetic loops in the solar corona and chromosphere, it is possible to explain the fact that jets flowing outward into the corona are more extended and appear before jets flowing towards the chromosphere. This model can reproduce the high Doppler shifted components of the line profiles but the brightening at low velocities, near the centre of the bi-directional jet, cannot be explained by this simple MHD model. 
BeppoSAX observations of the single pulse burst GRB960720 have allowed a detailed study of its X-ray properties: pulse width in different energy bands, spectral evolution from 2 to 700 keV, etc. We show that the early (0-5s) X-ray emission and the gamma-rays are well explained by internal shocks in a relativistic wind while the late (5-20s) X-ray emission could come from the reverse shock generated in the wind when it interacts with the external medium. The results for a medium of uniform density are compared to the observations. 
GK Persei is an intermediate polar that exhibits a dwarf nova outburst approximately every 1000 days. During previous outbursts the system has displayed kilo-second quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) in X-ray emission. These oscillations are unique in that they are an order of magnitude longer than QPOs usually observed in disc-fed cataclysmic variables. We have detected the optical counterpart of these QPOs in spectrophotometry collected during the 1996 outburst. The presence of these QPOs in Doppler-broadened emission lines originating from the highly-supersonic accretion flow enables us to place useful constraints on the location of the QPO source and its formation mechanism. 
Observations of the type II SN 1996L reveal the presence of a slowly expanding (V~700$ km/s) shell at ~ 10^(16) cm from the exploding star. Narrow emission features are visible in the early spectra superposed on the normal SN spectrum. Within about two months these features develop narrow symmetric P-Cygni profiles. About 100 days after the explosion the light curve suddenly flattens, the spectral lines broaden and the Halpha flux becomes larger than what is expected from a purely radioactive model. These events are interpreted as signatures of the onset of the interaction between the fast moving ejecta and a slowly moving outer shell of matter ejected before the SN explosion. At about 300 days the narrow lines disappear and the flux drops until the SN fades away, suggesting that the interaction phase is over and that the shell has been swept away. Simple calculations show that the superwind episode started 9 yr before the SN explosion and lasted 6 yr, with an average dM/dt=10^(-3) M_solar/yr. Even at very late epochs (up to day 335) the typical forbidden lines of [OI], CaII], [FeII] remain undetected or very weak. Spectra after day 270 show relatively strong emission lines of HeI. These lines are narrower than other emission lines coming from the SN ejecta, but broader than those from the CSM. These high excitation lines are probably the result of non-thermal excitation and ionization caused by the deposition of the gamma-rays emitted in the decay of radioactive material mixed in the He layer. 
We report on sensitive sub-mm imaging observations of the prototype Seyfert~2/starburst galaxy NGC 1068 at 850 $\mu $m and 450 $\mu $m using the Submillimetre Common-User Bolometer Array (SCUBA) on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT). We find clear evidence of dust emission associated with the extended HI component which together with the very faint $ ^{12}$CO J=1--0 emission give a gas-to-dust ratio of $\rm M_{\rm gas}/M_{\rm dust} \sim 70-150$. This contrasts with the larger ratio $\rm M_{\rm gas}/M_{\rm dust}\sim 330$ estimated within a galactocentric radius of $r\leq 1.36$ kpc, where the gas is mostly molecular and starburst activity occurs. The large gas-to-dust ratio found for the starburst region is attributed to a systematic overestimate of the molecular gas mass in starburst environments when the luminosity of the $ ^{12}$CO J=1--0 line and a standard galactic conversion factor is used. On the other hand sub-mm imaging proves to be a more powerful tool than conventional CO imaging for revealing the properties of the diffuse $\rm H_2$ that coexists with HI. This molecular gas phase is characterized by low densities ($\rm n(H_2)<10^3$ cm$ ^{-3}$), very faint emission from sub-thermally excited CO, and contains more mass than HI, namely $\rm M(H_2)/M(HI)\sim 5$. 
The results of the 2D modelling of Supernova remnant (SNR) RCW86 are given. Models of this remnant, which for the first time interpret the anisotropy of surface brightness as a result of the evolution of adiabatic SNR in the interstellar medium with a large-scale gradient of density, are considered. Estimations on the basic characteristics of RCW86 and the surrounding medium which follow from these models are found. It is shown that the observed surface brightness distribution of RCW86 may be obtaned in the both proposed up till now models with different initial assumptions: one about a Supernova explosion in 185 A.D. and another about an explosion in the OB-asossiation. In order to obtain the observational contrast of surface brightness it is necessary to have a medium with the characteristic scale of nonuniformity 11 pc if the age of RCW86 is 1800 years or 20-25 pc when the SNR is distant from us on 2.8 kpc. The preshock density contrast between the southwestern and northeastern parts of RCW86 is in range 3.5-4.5. 
We report the detection of optical and X-ray variability in the least luminous known Seyfert galaxy, NGC4395. The featureless continuum changed by a factor of 2 in 6 months, which is typical of more luminous AGN. The largest variation was seen at shorter wavelengths, so that the spectrum becomes `harder' during higher activity states. In a one week optical broad band monitoring program, a 20% change was seen between successive nights. In a 1 month period the spectral shape changed from a power law with spectral index alpha ~0 (characteristic of quasars) to a spectral index alpha ~2 (as observed in other dwarf AGN). ROSAT HRI and PSPC archive data show a variable X-ray source coincident with the galactic nucleus. A change in X-ray flux by a factor \~2 in 15 days has been observed. When compared with more luminous AGN, NGC4395 appears to be very X-ray quiet. The hardness ratio obtained from the PSPC data suggests that the spectrum could be absorbed. We also report the discovery of weak CaIIK absorption, suggesting the presence of a young stellar cluster providing of the order of 10% of the blue light. Using HST UV archive data, together with the optical and X-ray observations, we examine the spectral energy distribution for NGC4395 and discuss the physical conditions implied by the nuclear activity under the standard AGN model. The observations can be explained by either an accreting massive black hole emitting at about 10^(-3) L_(Edd) or by a single old compact SNR with an age of 50 to 500 yr generated by a small nuclear starburst. 
Exploiting the presence of kilohertz quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) in the timing power spectrum, we find that the soft x-ray emission of the neutron-star X-ray binary and atoll source 4U1636-536 modulated at the QPO frequency lags behind that of the hard x-ray emission. Emission in the 3.8-6.4 keV band is delayed by 25.0 +/- 3.3 microseconds relative to the 9.3-69 keV band. The delay increases in magnitude with increasing energy. Our results are consistent with those of Vaughan et al. (1997), when the sign is corrected (Vaughan et al. 1998), for the atoll source 4U1608-52. The soft lag could be produced by Comptonization of hard photons injected into a cooler electron cloud or by intrinsic spectral softening of the emission during each oscillation cycle. 
We present in this contribution our set of multiwavelength synthesis models including the evolution of single and binary stars. The main results we have obtained can be summarized as follows:   (a) massive close-binary systems will start to experience mass transfer episodes after the first 4 Myr of the starburst evolution;   (b) as a result of these mass transfer processes, stars of relatively low initial mass can loose completely their envelope and become a WR. In this way, the formation of WR stars is extended over longer than 15 Myr, and does not stop at 6 Myr as predicted by models including only single stars;   (c) WR stars can thus be coeval with red supergiants, which peak at around 10 Myr for solar metallicities;   (d) the accretion of mass will originate relatively massive stars at ages for which they should have already disappeared; these stars, together with the WR stars formed in rather evolved clusters, increase the production of ionizing photons, so that the H$\beta$ equivalent width will not drop as rapidly as predicted by models considering only individual stars; and   (e) the mass transfer to compact companions will produce an additional source of high-energy radiation in the form of high-mass X-ray binaries, not predicted either by standard synthesis models. 
We apply the formalism of spherical harmonic decomposition to the galaxy density field of the IRAS PSCz redshift survey. The PSCz redshift survey has almost all-sky coverage and includes IRAS galaxies to a flux limit of 0.6 Jy. Using maximum likelihood methods to examine (to first order) the distortion of the galaxy pattern due to redshift coordinates, we have measured the parameter \beta= \Omega^{0.6}/b. We also simultaneously measure (a) the undistorted amplitude of perturbations in the galaxy distribution when a parameterised power spectrum is assumed, or (b) the shape and amplitude of the real-space power spectrum if the band-power in a set of passbands is measured in a step- wise fashion. These methods are extensively tested on a series of CDM, \Lambda CDM and MDM simulations and are found to be unbiased. We obtain consistent results for the subset of the PSCz catalogue with flux above 0.75 Jy but inclusion of galaxies to the formal flux limit of the catalogue gives variations which are larger than our internal errors. For the 0.75 Jy catalogue we find, in the case of a parameterised power spectrum, \beta=0.58\pm0.26 and the amplitude of the real space power measured at wavenumber k=0.1 h/Mpc is \Delta_{0.1}=0.42 \pm 0.03. Freeing the shape of the power spectrum we find that \beta=0.47\pm 0.16 (conditional error), and \Delta_{0.1}=0.47 \pm 0.03. The shape of the real-space power spectrum is consistent with a \Gamma= 0.2 CDM-like shape parameter, but does not strongly rule out a number of other models. Finally by combining our estimate of the amplitude of galaxy clustering and the distortion parameter we find the amplitude of mass fluctuations on a scale k=0.1 \hmpc is \Delta_\rho = 0.24 \Omega_0^{-0.6}$, with an uncertainty of 50%. 
We present in this contribution the predictions on the multiwavelength spectral energy distribution of our evolutionary population synthesis models including single and binary stellar systems. The high energy computations include the emission associated to X-ray binaries and supernovae remnants, as well as the mechanical energy released into the interstellar medium, which can be partially reprocessed into thermal X-rays. With these components we compute the spectral energy distribution of starburst galaxies from X-ray to radio ranges, and analyze finally the effects of the high energy emission on the H and He ionizing continuum. 
We report results from an 18-day ROSAT HRI monitoring campaign on the ultrasoft Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 (NLS1) class quasar PHL 1092. This luminous, radio-quiet quasar showed strong X-ray variability in a short ROSAT PSPC observation, and ROSAT HRI monitoring of the similar object IRAS 13224-3809 revealed extreme variability on intermediate timescales. We wanted to determine whether remarkable X-ray variability persistently occurs in PHL 1092, and we also wanted to search for outstanding variability events that constrain emission processes. Given the large luminosity of PHL 1092 (about 5x10^{45} erg/s in the HRI band), we detect extremely rapid and large-amplitude X-ray variability throughout our monitoring. The maximum observed variability amplitude is a factor of about 14, and in the most rapid variability event the HRI count rate increases by a factor of about 3.8 in a rest-frame time interval of < 3580 s. The most rapid event has a rate change of luminosity of > 1.3x10^{42} erg/s^2, making it the most extreme such event we are aware of from a radio-quiet quasar. Standard `radiative efficiency limit' arguments imply a radiative efficiency larger than can be achieved by accretion onto a Kerr black hole rotating at the maximum plausible rate, although we point out that such arguments depend upon the geometry of initial radiation release. Relativistic motions of the X-ray source are probably causing the radiative efficiency limit to break down; such relativistic motions have also been inferred in the similar NLS1-class quasar PKS 0558--504. 
High energy gamma-ray astronomy has been established during the last decade through the launch of the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO) and the success of its ground-based counterpart, the imaging atmospheric Cherenkov technique. In the aftermath of their important and surprising scientific results a worldwide effort developing and designing new generation atmospheric Cherenkov detectors is underway. These novel instruments will have higher sensitivity at E > 250 GeV, but most importantly, will be able to close the unexplored energy gap between 20 GeV and 250 GeV. Several ground-based detectors are proposed or under construction. Aspects of the techniques used and sensitivity are discussed in this overview paper. The instruments cover largely complementary energy ranges and together are expected to explore the gamma-ray sky between 20 GeV and 100 TeV with unprecedented sensitivity. 
We consider the effect of binary stars on the main-sequence luminosity functions observed in the core of globular clusters, with specific reference to NGC 6752. We find that mass segregation results in an increased binary fraction at fainter magnitudes along the main-sequence. If this effect is not taken into account when analyzing luminosity functions, erroneous conclusions can be drawn regarding the distribution of single stars, and the dynamical state of the cluster. In the core of NGC 6752, our HST data reveal a flat luminosity function, in agreement with previous results. However, when we correct for the increasing binary fraction at faint magnitudes, the LF begins to fall immediately below the turn-off. This effect appears to be confined to the inner core radius of the cluster. 
Cataclysmic variables (CVs) are tracers of dynamical evolution in globular clusters. A significant sample has been found by the relatively shallow \Halpha surveys conducted with HST thus far in just three globulars: NGC 6397 (3), NGC 6752 (2), and $\omega$-Cen (2). These are identified with the low luminosity x-ray sources discovered in these globulars with similarly moderate-depth ROSAT surveys. Follow-up spectroscopy of the initial 3 CV candidates in NGC 6397 with the FOS on HST suggests they may be magnetic CVs of the intermediate polar (IP) type, and follow-up deep imaging with both HST and ROSAT yield a 4th confirmed and 5th strong candidate CV near the center of this collapsed core cluster. The optical vs. x-ray properties of the 4 confirmed IP candidates in NGC 6397 are compared with disk IPs, and arguments for and against this interpretation are presented. The possible strong excess of magnetic CVs in globulars will be tested with much deeper HST/AXAF surveys. 
Recent indications of a neutrino mass raise the possibility that the dark matter may be hot, which would be a severe challenge for structure formation theory. We argue that generic defect theories fare very well in hot dark matter cosmologies, and also work in the presence of curvature or a cosmological constant. If this model is correct, then the MAP and PLANCK missions will not measure what people expect them to (oscillations); rather, they will measure a broad hump. 
Dark matter may consist of weakly interacting elementary particles or of macroscopic compact objects. We show that the statistics of the gravitational lensing of high redshift supernovae strongly discriminate between these two classes of dark matter candidates. We develop a method of calculating the magnification distribution of supernovae, which can be interpreted in terms of the properties of the lensing objects. With simulated data we show that >~ 50 well measured type Ia supernovae (\Delta m ~ 0.2 mag) at redshifts ~1 can clearly distinguish macroscopic from microscopic dark matter if $\Omega_o \simgt 0.2$ and all dark matter is in one form or the other. 
We present the deep UBVRI observations of the HDF-S NICMOS field obtained as part of the Science Verification of the VLT Unit 1 telescope. The images have been used to construct object catalogs and to obtain photometric redshifts. The effective field of view is $\simeq 70\times70$ arcsec$^2$, and the formal $5\sigma$ limiting magnitudes (in a 2 FWHM aperture) are 26.3, 27.8, 27.5, 26.9, 25.2 in the $U$, $B$, $V$, $R$ and $I$ bands, respectively. Thanks to the sub-arcsecond image quality, relatively long exposure time, and large collecting area of the VLT, this is the deepest set of multicolor images ever obtained from a ground-based telescope. Galaxy counts have been derived independently in each band, and show no significant departures from previous data from wider areas. A multicolor photometric catalog of all the galaxies selected in the $R$ band has also been obtained and used to derive photometric redshifts for all galaxies with $R \leq 26.5 $, using also the J,H and K magnitudes from the NICMOS deep observations. A significant fraction (\simeq 28%)of the galaxies is placed at $z\geq 2$. Among them, six robust candidates are found at $z \geq 2.5$ . 
The Mihalas-Hummer-Dappen (MHD) equation of state is a part of the Opacity Project (OP), where it mainly provides ionization equilibria and level populations of a large number of astrophysically relevant species. Its basic concept is the idea of perturbed atomic and ionic states. The MHD equation of state was originally restricted to the plasma of stellar envelopes, that is, to relatively moderate densities, which should not exceed rho < 10**-2 g/cm**3. However, helioseismological analysis has demonstrated that this restriction is much too conservative. The principal feature of the original Hummer & Mihalas (1988) paper was a simplified form of the Holtsmark microfield for randomly distributed ions. An improved MHD equation of state (Q-MHD) is introduced. It is based on a more realistic microfield distribution (Hooper 1966, 1968) that includes plasma correlations. Comparison with an alternative post-Holtsmark formalism (APEX) is made, and good agreement is shown. There is a clear signature of the choice of the microfield distribution in the adiabatic index gamma_1, which makes it accessible to present-day helioseismological analysis. But since these thermodynamic effects of the microfield distribution are quite small, it also follows that the approximations chosen in the original MHD equation of state were reasonable. A particular feature of the original MHD papers was an explicit list of the adopted free energy and its first- and second-order analytical derivatives. The corresponding Q-MHD quantities are given in the Appendix. 
We discuss observations of the submm-selected galaxy, SMM J02399-0136, and what has been learnt about it during the year following its discovery. SMM J02399-0136 was the first distant galaxy detected in submm surveys with SCUBA. Its association with a massive, gas-rich starburst/AGN at z=2.8 has lead to suggestions that the prevalence of AGN in the early Universe may be high and that these AGN may account for a significant fraction of the far-IR background. 
The Sky Polarization Observatory (SPOrt) is presented as a project aimed to measure the diffuse sky polarized emission, from the International Space Station, in the frequency range 20-90 GHz with 7 degrees of HPBW. The SPOrt experimental configuration is described with emphasis on the aspects that make SPOrt the first European scientific payload operating at microwave wavelengths. 
We present the cosmological and astrophysical objectives of the SPOrt mission, which is scheduled for flying on the International Space Station (ISS) in the year 2002 with the purpose of measuring the diffuse sky polarized radiation in the microwave region. We discuss the problem of disentangling the cosmic background polarized signal from the Galactic foregrounds. 
``One could imagine that as a result of enormously extended astronomical experience, the entire universe consists of countless identical copies of our Milky Way, that the infinite space can be partitioned into cubes each containing an exactly identical copy of our Milky Way. Would we really cling on to the assumption of infinitely many identical repetitions of the same world? >... We would be much happier with the view that these repetitions are illusory, that in reality space has peculiar connection properties so that if we leave any one cube through a side, then we immediately reenter it through the opposite side.'' (Schwarzschild 1900, translation 1998)   Developments in the theoretical and observational sides of cosmic topology were slow for most of the century, but are now progressing rapidly, at the scale of most interest which is 1-10 h^-1 Gpc rather than 10kpc.   The historical, mathematical and observational sides of this subject are briefly reviewed in this course. 
Arrays of imaging air Cherenkov telescopes (IACTs) like VERITAS, HESS have been recently proposed as the instruments of the next generation for ground based very high energy gamma-ray astronomy invading into 50-100 GeV energy range. Here we present results of design studies for the future IACT arrays which have been performed by means of Monte Carlo simulations. We studied different trigger strategies, abilities of cosmic ray rejection for arrays of 4 and 16 telescopes with 10 m reflectors, equipped with cameras comprising 271 and 721 pixels of 0.25 and 0.15 degree, respectively. The comparative analysis of the performance of such telescope arrays has been done for both camera options, providing almost the same field of view of 4.3 degree. An important issue is the choice of the optimum spacing between the telescopes in such an array. In order to maximize the signal-to-noise ratio in observations at the small zenith angles of 20 degree as well as at large zenith angles of 60 degree, different arrangements of IACT array have been examined. Finally, we present a major recommendations regarding the optimum configuration. 
